BUCKAROO BANZAI

by

Earl Mac Rauch

SHOOTING SCRIPT

March 30, 1983
Becherman/Canton-Richter

BUCKAROO BANZAI

CARD OVER...WHITE LETTERS ON A DARK BACKGROUND:

		FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
		Classified File #2TC1695
Dept. of Defense
3-1-50 thru 8-31-53
Re:  Project Sawtooth

FADE IN:

EXT.  SMALL TEXAS TOWN - DAY	1

Beside a 1950 Ford, a quartet of elite intellectuals poses 
playfully...dressed in the local custom of boots and cowboy hats, the 
TOW ORIENTAL MEN, A CAUCASIAN MAN, AND A CAUCASIAN WOMAN squint into 
the hot sun and then down at the jiggling home movie camera, the 
operator lopsided...

NARRATOR

of the Cold War as the decade of the 1950s looms.  Stung by this Soviet 
challenge and the rapid race to develop ever more sophisticated 
weapons, the United States resurrects maverick Professor Toichi 
Hikita's work in electromagnetic particle acceleration...despite the 
dismal record of failure that has dogged the project.

TOICHI HIKITA, one of the group, walks forward, taking the CAMERA from 
its present operator, a four-year-old child...A LITTLE BOY IN CHAPS AND 
COWBOY HAT who now joins the other adults, in particular Caucasian 
woman and the elder Oriental man who pick him up and hug him...

NARRATOR

himself anxious to work for the Allies.  Enamored of the great American 
West, Banzai sires a precocious son and tags the tiny child "Buckaroo."  
A tribute to his adopted homeland.

EXT.  TEST SITE - DAY	2

A strange TWO-MAN SPEED VEHICLE readies for takeoff...the FIRST "PILOT" 
in the cockpit Dr. Banzai himself:

NARRATOR

disaster at Princeton, Doctor Hikita finds new life at the Texas School 
of Mines, where he assembles a team of crack scientists willing to 
gamble he's right in his bold assertion that man can indeed pass 
unharmed through solid matter.

The SECOND "PILOT," a fair-haired Caucasian:	3

NARRATOR

with Whitehead and Lord Russell of the world's most advanced 
theoretical gravity catapult...

	4

details, securing the two pilots in their seats, checking their 
instrument data, writing on a clipboard...

NARRATOR

...wife of Dr. Masado Banzai.

...as the four-year-old BUCKAROO BANZAI now approaches the speed 
machine and gives his father a good-bye kiss...Dr. Banzai saying 
something to the boy, Buckaroo bowing respectfully, as his father and 
mother exchange last-minute assurances...

The cockpit canopy comes down, and Sandra Banzai tugs a reluctant 
little Buckaroo toward a sandbagged shelter...

EXT.  SANDBAGS - DAY	5

...where Professor Hikita sits at a bank of monitoring equipment, 
Sandra Banzai and Buckaroo entering the enclosure as...

...A SUDDEN NOISE causes Sandra Banzai to turn in fear, the bizarre 
speed machine's motors whining at an astonishing rpm, BLINDING GREEN 
FLAMES ENGULFING ITS COCKPIT...

EXT.  TEST SITE - DAY	6

...Sandra Banzai rushing toward the sheet-metal vehicle through SMOKE 
AND GREEN FLAME as her husband and Sir Alan both struggle to get out...

	7

scientists free themselves when suddenly the child is thrown to the 
ground and protected by Professor Hikita's own body...as the 
experimental car VAPORIZES IN A FLASH OF EMERALD GREEN LIGHT!  THE 
SCREEN GOING WHITE, A LAUNCH COUNTDOWN BEGINNING UNDER A SOMBER CARD:

TODAY


VOICE OF MISSION CONTROL


INT.  BLOCKHOUSE - DAY	8

CLOSE ON AN OLDER, WISER PROFESSOR HIKITA:

PROF. HIKITA

latched.

EXT.  JET CAR - PROVING GROUNDS - DAY	9

One hundred yards from a concrete blockhouse, a SERIES OF MYSTERIOUS 
CLOSEUPS of an UNUSUAL STRATEGIC AUTOMOBILE sitting ready to roll, as 
TECHNICIANS in asbestos suites fill its tanks with HIGHLY FLAMMABLE 
FUEL.

INT.  BLOCKHOUSE - DAY	10

PROF. HIKITA


...amid television screens, monitoring devices...an elite assortment of 
GOVERNMENT VIPS, MILITARY MEN, AND NEWS MEDIA REPRESENTATIVES standing 
by...

	11

unpleasant news in his ear...

GENERAL CATBURD


The aide shrugging, the General leaning over to a nervous man sitting 
next to him...SECRETARY OF DEFENSE McKINLEY.

GENERAL CATBURD


Another angle.  Two of Buckaroo's men, RENO and PERFECT TOMMY, sitting 
with their boots on a computer console.

PERFECT TOMMY


RENO


...an attractive NETWORK TV ANCHORWOMAN headed this way...

PERFECT TOMMY


INT.  OPERATING ROOM - DAY	13

THE EYES OF DOCTOR BUCKAROO BANZAI, THE REST OF HIS FACE HIDDEN BY A 


INT.  SURGICAL SCRUB ROOM - DAY	14

...a phone ringing, a NURSE answering it, then:

NURSE


Jacketless, A SINISTER PISTOL visible in the tooled leather shoulder 
holster, RAWHIDE takes the receiver.

RAWHIDE

(into his Go-Fone)
Buckaroo, I need an estimate.  They're getting antsy over at Mission 
Control.

INT.  OPERATING ROOM - DAY	15

Buckaroo Banzai speaks into his GO-FONE:

BUCKAROO BANZAI


REVEALING DOCTOR BANZAI, the great surgeon, surrounded by a well-oiled 
team of physicians and nurses...his steady, miraculously skilled hands 
working a LASER KNIFE on the brain of a PATIENT sitting clamped in a 
serious chair.

INT.  SURGICAL SCRUB ROOM - DAY	16

RAWHIDE

The chief needs ten more minutes.  I got the chopper waiting.  Don't 
start without us.

INT.  BLOCKHOUSE - DAY	17

Perfect Tommy still leaning back in his swivel chair, smiling at the 
blonde TV anchorwoman, waiting for her CAMERAMAN to set up...

TV ANCHORWOMAN


PERFECT TOMMY

Whadda you need Buckaroo for?

The anchorwoman catching his drift, smiling, knowing Perfect Tommy 
perhaps intimately...Perfect Tommy glancing across the crowded room at 
Reno raising ten fingers...

PERFECT TOMMY

doing tonight?

TV ANCHORWOMAN

Flying to Cambodia.

Perfect Tommy frowning severely as she tried on his Stetson, the 
anchorwoman promptly getting the message and putting it back down.

PERFECT TOMMY

hadda kill you.

TV ANCHORWOMAN


PERFECT TOMMY


INT.  SURGICAL SCRUB ROOM - DAY	18

Another STAR SURGEON, scrubbing for an operation next door now peeking 
at his wrist watch TV:

CLOSE ON THE TINY TV:  AN IMAGE OF THE JET CAR...	19

ANGLE ON...	20

STAR SURGEON


RAWHIDE


The surgeon curious, studying the big TV monitor, Rawhide sensing an 
explanation is in order:

RAWHIDE

original, bypassing massive stroke damage.  A subcutaneous microphone's 
gonna allow the patient to transmit verbal instructions to his own 
brain.

STAR SURGEON


RAWHIDE

gonna come from all over. This guy's an Eskimo.

INT.  OPERATING ROOM - DAY	21

Buckaroo winding down the surgery.  A BRILLIANT BUT ERRATIC JEWISH 
PHYSICIAN at his side whispering through a mask...

JEWISH PHYSICIAN


BUCKAROO BANZAI


JEWISH PHYSICIAN

I just lost my nerve...I panicked...again.

Buckaroo picking a NIKON up off a table, snapping some pictures of his 
handiwork...

BUCKAROO BANZAI

endeavor, Dr. Zwibel.  Ever thought about joining me full-time?

JEWISH PHYSICIAN (DR. ZWIBEL)


BUCKAROO BANZAI


DR. ZWIBEL


Buckaroo glancing at the clock on the wall...

INT.  BLOCKHOUSE - DAY	22

PROF. HIKITA


MISSION CONTROL


General Catburd and other VIPS happy to observe on their TV monitors 
the sight of a MAN IN BLACK COMMANDO PARACHUTE SUIT, carrying a 
BATTERED OLD BRIEFCASE, climbing into the cockpit of...THE JET CAR.

INT.  JET CAR - DAY

THE DRIVER'S POV, a curious combination of airplane dials and switches 
and personal touches like a big four-on-the-floor gear shift and a 
snazzy pearlized Brodi knob with snowflakes and a coochi-coochi girl...

	24

briefcase, plugs it into a cradle near his head...

INT.  BLOCKHOUSE - DAY	25

Professor Hikita standing at a special monitor as a light pops on, 
indicating "Overthruster Armed"....he covers it with a hanky...

EXT.  JET CAR - DAY	26

...all quiet suddenly, the car poised, waiting...

INT.  BLOCKHOUSE - DAY	27

General Catburd grabbing some coffee and doughnuts...the Secretary of 
Defense peering out through a viewing slot...

GENERAL CATBURD

supposed to do anyway?

SENATOR CUNNINGHAM


GENERAL CATBURD


SECRETARY OF DEFENSE


EXT.  JET CAR - DAY	28

The Jet Car undergoing an amazing transformation:  TWO STABILIZER FINS 
AND A JET ENGINE suddenly appearing on its rear deck...

INT.  JET CAR - DAY	29

CLOSE ON THE DRIVER TO REVEAL BUCKAROO BANZAI, world famous figure in 
every field of endeavor as he withdraws a beautiful KAMIKAZE SCARF from 
his flight suit...wraps it like a warrior's headband around his 
helmet...

	30

THE PULSATING POWER OF THE JET ENGINE INCREASING DRAMATICALLY with each 
successive switch...the vehicle a caged beast, taunting us, as Buckaroo 
flips the last switch...

BUCKAROO BANZAI


EXT.  JET CAR - DAY	31

No kidding.  A TWENTY FOOT SHEET OF FIRE ROCKETING FROM THE BACK OF THE 
JET CAR...THEN ANOTHER...THEN ANOTHER...

INT.  BLOCKHOUSE - DAY	32

The Cavaliers at their monitors, calm...Hikita making minor adjustments 
on his instrument bank...the Secretary of Defense and General Catburd 
both now at viewing slots in the blockhouse wall...

PROF. HIKITA


INT.  JET CAR - DAY	33

PROF. HIKITA'S VOICE


As Buckaroo Banzai twists his steering-wheel mounted TWIN ACCELERATORS, 
the sudden forward lurch of the Jet Car slamming him back against the 
headrest...

EXT.  PROVING GROUNDS - DAY	34

THE JET CAR BLASTING OFF!  MORE FIRE!  MORE SMOKE!

INT.  BLOCKHOUSE - DAY	35

Technicians and VIPS eye their monitors.

	36

high above us it blasts ahead!

ANGLE ON	37

GENERAL CATBURD


SENATOR CUNNINGHAM


Catburd moving aside as Senator Cunningham takes her turn with the 
viewing device.

GENERAL CATBURD


INT.  HELICOPTER - DAY	38

HIGH OVERHEAD, manned by a TV NEWS CREW.

	39

CHOKES THE LANDSCAPE BELOW...

INT.  JET CAR - DAY	40

BUCKAROO'S POV as the highway races underneath him...

INT.  BLOCKHOUSE - DAY	41

ALL EYES glued to those TV monitors, Rawhide and Reno 
watching...Perfect Tommy slapping his hand on the desk.

TV ANCHORWOMAN

able to keep that thing on the ground?

PERFECT TOMMY


EXT.  PROVING GROUNDS - DAY	42

Talk about a road hugger...the JET CAR SCREAMS PAST A BANK OF HIGH 
SPEED CAMERAS...THE EARTH SHAKING...

INT.  BLOCKHOUSE - DAY	43

PROF. HIKITA

three one seven nautical-four hundred...

SECRETARY OF DEFENSE


GENERAL CATBURD


INT.  JET CAR - DAY	44

...as if in response to Catburd's comment, Buckaroo does an amazing 
thing, NOW FLICKING HIS DIRECTIONAL SIGNAL...

EXT.  JET CAR - DAY	45

LEAVING THE PAVED SURFACE FOR OPEN TERRAIN!  BEGIN INTERCUTTING 


INT.  JET CAR - DAY	46

A FIRE breaking out on a dashboard gauge, Buckaroo quickly snuffing the 
SPARKS with his gloved hand...DANGER LIGHTS FLASHING!

EXT.  JET CAR - DAY	47

...as AWESOME PHYSICAL PRESSURES take their tool on car and driver...

INT.  BLOCKHOUSE - DAY	48

PROF. HIKITA


MISSION CONTROL


INT.  JET CAR - DAY	49

BUCKAROO BANZAI


INT.  BLOCKHOUSE- DAY	50

Buckaroo's voice through STATIC AND CRACKLE.  Professor Hikita white-
knuckled...determined.

INT.  JET CAR - DAY	51

Buckaroo STILL ACCELERATING, struggling with his mighty 
machine...fierce vibrations, OIL AND SMOKE filling the cockpit...as he 
wipes hot oil off his goggles...

INT.  HELICOPTER - DAY	52

In the NETWORK HELICOPTER, a NEWSMAN and CAMERMAN catch this shocking 
turn of events:

	53

BOOM!

INT.  BLOCKHOUSE - DAY	54

A TV MONITOR...A HELICOPTER SHOT revealing that the course thus far 
traveled by Buckaroo is ON FIRE, the ground literally set ablaze by the 
incredible speed of his JET CAR:

ANGLE ON:	55

TV ANCHORWOMAN

severed...that firestorm apparently interfering with 
communications...Buckaroo Banzai in serious trouble.

GENERAL CATBURD


Professor Hikita, on pins and needles, face taught, concerned.

MISSION CONTROL


SECRETARY OF DEFENSE


MISSION CONTROL


Buckaroo heard faintly in a STORM OF NOISE...SPEAKING JAPANESE...

SENATOR CUNNINGHAM


PROF. HIKITA

He said, "This Bud's for you, Professor."  What does that mean?

	56

and TOWARD A WALL OF MOUNTAINS, impact virtually assured.

ANGLE ON:	57

GENERAL CATBURD

take the friends of the Earth with him.

Rawhide and Reno exchanging very concerned glances...

INT.  JET CAR - DAY	58

Buckaroo Banzai peers out his thick glass window.

BUCKAROO'S POV:  THE SIDE OF A MOUNTAIN CLOSING FAST...	59

	60

OSCILLATION OVERTHURSTER, remaining there, posed.

REVERSE ON BUCKAROO:  eyes on his instruments.	61

ANOTHER ANGLE ON Buckaroo hitting the OVERTHRUSTER...	62

	63



INT.  MISSION CONTROL ROOM - DAY	64

ALL INSTRUMENTS LOSE CONTACT WITH THE JET CAR!  Jaws drop in disbelief.

CLOSE ON MONITOR:  THE JET CAR SIMPLY GONE, VANISHED INTO THIN AIR...


ANGLE ON:	66

MISSION CONTROL


GENERAL CATBURD


INT.  JET CAR	67

BUCKAROO'S COCKPIT POV... like a roller coaster ride through a meteor 
shower - THE EIGHTH DIMENSION, AN ORGANIC ASTEROID HURTLING RIGHT AT US 
EMITTING STRANGE STATIC ELECTRICAL CHARGES...MONSTROUS...RED...GHASTLY!

	68

God-knows-how-many G-forces...where the hell is he?!  His plexiglas 
visor shattering as if hit with a two-by-four.

COCKPIT POV...Buckaroo's windshield CRACKLING AND THE COCKPIT TURNING 
RED.	69

	70

OSCILLATION OVERTHRUSTER again, amid fire and smoke!

INT.  HELICOPTER - TEST RANGE - DAY	71

The TV crew in their fancy helicopter first to witness an astounding 
sight.

	72

MOUNTAIN WERE MUSH!

CLOSE ON:	73

HELICOPTER NEWSMAN

He's through it!  He's gone through the mountain without a scratch!  
Oh, my God!  Oh, my God in Heaven!

INT.  MISSION CONTROL - DAY	74

An overjoyed Professor Hikita, surrounded by chaos and confusion, 
throws both arms skyward in triumph...

PROF. HIKITA


INT.  JET CAR - DOWN RANGE - DAY	75

Fifty miles downrange, Buckaroo tries to slow the speeding, smoke-
filled JET CAR.

EXT.  JET CAR - DAY	76

A parachute popping out its back, at once ripping off in the high 
velocity wind...

INT.  JET CAR - DAY	77

BUCKAROO BANZAI


78	

his Brodi knob hard to the right!

EXT.  MIDDLE OF NOWHERE - DAY	79

Buckaroo doing the impossible, somehow bringing the racing JET CAR to a 
spinning, skidding halt in a thicket of dry brush!  AS OVERHEAD THAT 
NETWORK HELICOPTER CIRCLES...

EXT.  JET CAR - DAY	80

The battered JET CAR, exhausting smoke, Buckaroo rolling its window 
down, opening the door and emerging, checking the damage to his 
vehicle, noting a STRANGE GELATINOUS SUBSTANCE on the cracked 
windshield, touching it and turning his nose from the smell...his glove 
steaming!

THE NEWS COPTER LANDING IN THE DISTANCE.	81

	82

to-face with one ugly SPHERICAL PARASITE, THE THING SUDDENLY SHOOTING 
OUT at Buckaroo as he's about to touch it...A MOBILE PHONE starting to 
BEEP back in the cockpit...the PARASITE coming to rest on the 
ground...dead?

INT.  BLOCKHOUSE - DAY	83

Pandemonium, people cheering...General Catburd on the phone...

GENERAL CATBURD


EXT.  JET CAR - DAY	84

Buckaroo ignoring the phone, taking his lunch bag from the front seat 
and removing a sandwich, taking a bite of it, and using the foil to 
pick up the BIZARRE PARASITE from the desert floor...wrapping the weird 
thing up...now at last reaching for the car phone...

INT.  BLOCKHOUSE - DAY	85

SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

Gimme that!  You tell me, Buckaroo, what in the hell is this going-
through-solid-matter-and rendering-all-conventional-defense-perimeters-
useless-over-night bullshit?

But now Professor Hikita snatching the phone from the Secretary, 
turning his back to the room!

PROF. HIKITA


EXT.  JET CAR - DAY	86

Buckaroo leaning in to check his gauges, talking on his telephone.  TWO 
FIGURES from the news copter approaching, still a hundred yards off...

BUCKAROO BANZAI

Broke my windshield...

INT.  BLOCKHOUSE - DAY	87

PROF. HIKITA

The creatures?  They attacked you?  They tried to possess you?

GENERAL CATBURD

(grabbing the phone)
Buckaroo, Catburd here.  I got egg all over my face, but that's okay.  
No room for egos here.  We're all Americans and I wanna buy that thing 
of yours.  What's it gonna run me?

PROF. HIKITA


GENERAL CATBURD


...as the Secretary of Defense picks up a RED PHONE...

SECRETARY OF DEFENSE


Perfect Tommy and Reno suddenly stepping forward, intimidating 
Catburd...

PERFECT TOMMY


INT.  HOME FOR CRIMINALLY INSANCE - DAY	88

CLOSE ON the haunting, unsettling eyes of DOCTOR LIZARDO, AN ORANGE-
HAIRED OLD MAN watching NETWORK FOOTAGE of the Jet Car Test on his 
battered Philco TV set...his eyes practically burning a whole through 
the screen...

...PULLING BACK TO REVEAL a room in an insane asylum, a room designed 
for several inmates but occupied by only one, this crazy old 
fiend...the empty beds piled with books and Italian memorabilia, the 
walls covered with mathematical equations...

	89

formula on the wall with a piece of chalk...

CLOSE ON PHILCO:	90

ANCHORWOMAN ON TV

that mountain!  Perfect Tommy, Rawhide, Reno, you guys're the Hong Kong 
Cavaliers. Buckaroo's most trusted inner circle.  So I gotta ask, did 
it surprise you fellas as much as the rest of us when the BJV, the 
experimental jet vehicle went right off the scope and apparently smack 
into a black void?

PERFECT TOMMY ON TV


ANCHORWOMAN ON TV

mornings?

The Cavaliers rolling their eyes, looking at one another...

RAWHIDE ON TV


	91

HIS LEFT AHND, ACTING INDEPENDENTLY OF HIS RIGHT, ERASES THE EQUATION 

picks up a crude HOMEMADE ELECTROMAGNET...a piece of metal wrapped in 
copper wire, one end of which is a small loop that Lizardo now attaches 
directly to his thumbs...

DOCTOR LIZARDO

The Overthruster! The Overthruster! 

Lizardo looking back at his equation, at first puzzled to find it 
erased, then becoming angry.

	92



ANGLE ON:	93

DOCTOR LIZARDO

The Overthruster! 

ELECTRICAL CURRENT COURSING THROUGH LIZARDO'S BODY...AN AURA 



INT.  STRANGE LABORATORY - NIGHT	94

Forty-six years prior (years before the ill-fated primitive speed car 
run involving Buckaroo's parents) an unlikely experiment in a strange 
factory...A RUNWAY...a much younger, dark-haired Doctor Lizardo being 
strapped into a homemade wicker chair/rocket sled by two LAB 
ASSISTANTS, the entire contraption set up like a catapult AIMED 
DIRECTLY AT A LOSID BRICK WALL, THROBBING ELECTROMAGNETS AND BANKS OF 


	95

JUVENILE PROFESSOR HIKITA wearing glasses and scraggly 
goatee...standing in front of a 1938 calendar on the wall, today's 
eagerly awaited date circled in red...

PROF. HIKITA


Doctor Lizardo pulling on a leather helmet, Professor Hikita nodding 
grimly at the LAB ASSISTANTS who tug on a GIANT LEVER...the 
ELECTROMAGNETS PULSATING...

DOCTOR LIZARDO


PROF. HIKITA


	96

AT A FANTASTIC SPEED down the rails!

	97

total stop ten feet from the brick wall, pitching Lizardo forward 
and...

	98

turning out to be more like vertical QUICKSAND...Lizardo half in, half 
out, physically unhurt but screaming his head off...

	99

Professor Hikita observes an astonishing thing through his periscope.

	100




	101

dragging him back into the room only to find this SUDDENLY ORANGE-
HAIRED LIZARDO a fearsome, changed individual...a beast!

	102

straightens up, at last wrenching free of the wicker chair, smashing 
his two assistants' heads together as he jumps over the runway!  Hikita 
watching wild-eyed as Lizardo makes a mad dash into the vast shadowy 
expanse of the factory...

	103

into the night, SILHOUTTED AGAINST A DAZZLING SECURITY LIGHT, THE 
SCREEN BURNING WHITE...OUR FLASHBACK ENDING.

INT.  LIZARDO'S ROOM - NIGHT	104

Nearly half a century later, the elderly Lizardo regards with 
smoldering evil the turn of the key in his own door and the appearance 
of a GUARD who comes in and unplugs his TV set.

GUARD

too damn much juice...ten thousand kilowatts again this month.  Beats 
me how one old homicidal loony could use that much power.

The guard leaving with Lizardo's TV...Lizardo trying to control 
himself, his eyes rolling up at the ceiling where yet another UNUSUAL 
EQUATION has been scrawled in an angry hand.

DOCTOR LIZARDO

I want it.

INT.  NIGHTCLUB - NIGHT	105

Mysterious half-light...CLOSEUPS...plugs and jacks...a portion of an 
upright base...drums with the BANZAI LOGO writ large...hands and feet 
putting everything together as an unseen audience stirs restlessly...

INT.  DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT	106

Backstage in a small dressing room, the rock band known as the Hong 
Kong Cavaliers waits to go on...three unidentified GROUPIES in 
attendance as Rawhide naps and Reno tunes his saxophone while Perfect 
Tommy answers the questions of a FEMALE REPORTER from the local 
underground press...

Professor Hikita meantime at a corner table, studying his big notebook, 
examining a pair of KODAK SLIDES...

...as there is the sound of a commotion in the corridor, EXCITED VOICES 
and FOOT TRAFFIC coming this way, Rawhide methodically counting down 
under his Stetson:

RAWHIDE


	107

admitting an out-of-breath and hastily tuxedoed Buckaroo Banzai, A 
SMALL CROWD OF ASSORTED FEMAL FANS locked outside.

BUCKAROO BANZAI


RAWHIDE


BUCKAROO BANZAI


Rawhide taking a half-eaten sandwich out of his hat and tossing it to 
Buckaroo...

BUCKAROO BANZAI

(taking a big bite)
Check in with the Institute, Reno, see if everything's kosher.

PROF. HIKITA

you pulled off the Jet Car drive shaft.

RENO

crack in her windshield.

BUCKAROO BANZAI


PERFECT TOMMY


Perfect Tommy producing a highly sophisticated SLIDE VIEWER...Buckaroo 
slipping in a transparency.

	108

WOMAN.

	109

woman slide from the viewer...

BUCKAROO BANZAI


PERFECT TOMMY


Rawhide reclaiming his raunchy slide, Buckaroo looking back into the 
sleek device...

PROF. HIKITA

dead now, although it still conducts electricity even better than 
copper does.

PERFECT TOMMY


PROF. HIKITA

(slipping in another slide)
...notice...although certain components resist identification, it 
corresponds very closely to an ordinary praying mantis.

BUCKAROO BANZAI

Too closely.  Gotta be more than sheer coincidence.  Rawhide, you're 
keen on bugs.  What do you think?

Rawhide takes a look as Reno hangs the phone up...

RENO

Car and she's under lock and key.  He's retiming her valves.

Buckaroo nodding, as he's interrupted by Perfect Tommy who's now 
brought over the female reporter...

PERFECT TOMMY


BUCKAROO BANZAI


PERFECT TOMMY


Perfect Tommy quickly taking a place beside Buckaroo, smiling into the 
camera, as Reno and Rawhide exchange disgusted looks...

	110

dressing room door opening to admit the club owner, ARTIE DUNCAN, a 
fifty-year-old rocker who has to struggle to close the door behind him 
on a herd of REPORTERS and FANS...

ARTIE DUNCAN

band. I want some music outta you characters.

RENO 


BUCKAROO BANZAI


PERFECT TOMMY


A pair of no-nonsense BLUE SHIELD IRREGULARS appearing to escort them 
on-stage...as Rawhide returns the spectroscope to Professor Hikita...

RAWHIDE

hadda guess?  A mutated species.

INT.  BACKSTAGE - NIGHT	111

Buckaroo, the Hong Kong Cavaliers, and their two Blue Shield escorts 
hustling down a corridor.

INT.  NIGHTCLUB STAGE - NIGHT	112

Our boys arriving on stage...SHADOWY FORMS in the dramatically murky 
light...a FAMILIAR VOICE BOOMING OVER THE P.A. SYSTEM...

ARTIE DUNCAN'S VOICE

only...the one, the only, the amazing Buckaroo Banzai and his Hong Kong 
Cavaliers!

LIGHTS UP!  AND A WAVE OF GOOD OLD FASHIONED ROCK 'N' ROLL CRASHES OUT 

Cavaliers in a number so primal your feet just won't sit still!

	113

ATTRACTIVE YOUNG LADY...crying, for some reason exempt from the general 
raucous good will.  She pours herself another drink, but booze won't do 
the job.  She's all alone.  She needs some help.  Her name is PENNY 
PRIDDY.

	114

the Cavaliers to cease as well.  EERIE STILLNESS, the only sound 
Buckaroo's lips on the silver mike.

BUCKAROO BANZAI

(no response)
I said is someone out there crying in the darkness?

Yes, indeed...Penny's voice, weakly:	115

PENNY PRIDDY


	116

ADDRESS SYSTEM.

BUCKAROO BANZAI


PENNY PRIDDY

This is so embarrassing...

BUCKAROO BANZAI

your name?

PENNY PRIDDY


For reasons out of their control, Penny's name coming across to 
Buckaroo and the Cavaliers as "Peggy," said name immediately eliciting 
a surprised reaction from the Cavaliers...

...Buckaroo amazed as well...a not-too-distant pain deep in his soul 
momentarily manifesting itself, although he makes a brave attempt at 
nonchalance...as now Penny is given that microphone.

BUCKAROO BANZAI


PENNY PRIDDY

anything to you.  I'm a nobody.

The business of the names settled, Buckaroo and the Cavaliers breathing 
a bit more easily...

BUCKAROO BANZAI


PENNY PRIDDY

Did I say anything was wrong? I just sponged up a little too much Vat 
69, okay? I'm down to my last nickel in this lousy town, I can't get my 
luggage outta hock 'cause I met this jerk who said he was a record 
producer when all he had was a record.  He offered to set me up for 
life, and like a fool, well, I...

BUCKAROO BANZAI


PENNY PRIDDY

(to tell the truth)
I lost my room this morning.  I don't know where I'm gonna sleep 
tonight, but I keep going.  What the hell else can I do?  I've still 
got my figure, and like this bozo said, as long as there's a sidewalk, 
I'll always have a job.

A few snickers...BUCKAROO shooting a disapproving look at those guilty 
of laughing at another person's misfortune...

BUCKAROO BANZAI

been there.

Buckaroo moving to a piano...starting to play...

BUCKAROO BANZAI

your luck.

PENNY PRIDDY

My name's, Penny!  But who cares?

	117


	118

earned paperback entitled Beyond the Realm of Atomic Particles and 
Massless Photons, by Buckaroo Banzai...then a BUCKAROO BANZAI COMIC 
BOOK, its cover depicting Buckaroo locked in mortal combat with HANOI 
SHAN, THE MANCHU TERROR!  Penny lays both publications on the table, 
continues to dig around, revealing next a SHINY SMALL-CALIBER AUTOMATIC 
PISTOL...

	119


	120

starting to flood her eyes...

	121

glance, his animal presence...a real heart-breaker.

	122

handle...SLOWLY MOVING THE GUN...

	123


	124

accidentally deflected by a passing WAITRESS, the SHOT going harmlessly 
into the ceiling as...

	125

hammers, forming a human barricade around Buckaroo...

	126

from the room.

PENNY PRIDDY


BUCKAROO BANZAI


ARTIE DUNCAN'S VOICE


	127

postures...Buckaroo too...but his mind still half on Penny Priddy.

INT.  CRIMINALLY INSANCE COORIDOR - NIGHT	128

Recreation time.  SEVERAL MADMEN playing video games, content.

Doctor Lizardo's Philco TV now sitting on a watch desk, the guard who 
took it eating dinner, leaning back in his chair, his feet on the 
set...so he can bash it now and then to improve the picture 
quality...as a SHADOW falls across him...Doctor Lizardo...pulling a 
RATTY SUITCASE on tiny travel wheels, wearing an ANCIENT SPORTJACKET.  
Out for a stroll?

GUARD


	129

catches the astonished guard around the throat, lifting him off the 
floor, Lizardo's left hand picking up the telephone...

DR. LIZARDO

Yoyodyne Propulsions Systems.  Grover's Mill, New Jersey. Tell him it's 
John Whorfin calling. That's W-H-O-R-F-I-N. Got it, honey? John! J-O-H-
N!

Lizardo waiting for the call to go through as he strangles the last 
breath of air out of the helpless guard, drops him to the linoleum, 
reaching for the dead man's keys...

DR. LIZARDO

Of course it's me, John Bigboote, you fool! Prepare for my return!  The 
time has come.  Haven't you heard? Don't you watch TV? Banzai and 
Hikita have done it! I'll meet you at the factory.  Get that 
overthruster!  And the little Jap!  Alive!  Banzai's too dangerous.

Lizardo ripping the phone out of the wall, hurling it across the 
room...

...those inmates playing their video games fleeing like rabbits when 
they see that...Lizardo obviously no ordinary lunatic, as he proves by 
simply reaching out and...

	130

on his way to freedom, suitcase in tow.

INT.  BEDROOM ON BUS - DAY	131

CLOSE ON a newspaper, a banner front page headline announcing the 
amazing Jet Car test...

...and down in a lower corner, A PHOTOGRAPH OF "WOULD-BE-ASSASSIN" 
PENNY PRIDDY being summarily escorted out of Artie's Artery...PULLING 
BACK TO REVEAL...

	132

books everywhere...Buckaroo trying to tie his bowtie, glancing at the 
newspaper propped upon his dresser, that picture of Penny Priddy 
staring back at him...Perfect Tommy and Reno nearby assembling some 
kind of slide show...THE WHOLE ROOM SWAYING MYSTERIOUSLY...

...the two Cavaliers worrying more about Buckaroo than about what 
they're doing, as they fumble the slides, several falling to the 
floor...

PERFECT TOMMY


RENO


...Perfect Tommy getting up and peeking at the newspaper over 
Buckaroo's shoulder...then returning to Reno...their voices low...

PERFECT TOMMY


RENO 


PERFECT TOMMY


RENO 


PERFECT TOMMY

so too or else he wouldn't be ready to go make a fool of himself, 
right?

	133

appearing, offering a COMPUTER PRINT-OUT...

RAWHIDE

notified. That old pal of the professor's, Dr. Emilio Lizardo?  The one 
you did the brain scan on--?  He killed a guard last night, broke outta 
the Trenton Home for the Criminally Insane, stole a Masarati, totaled 
it a block away.

Buckaroo's expression changing at the mention of the name 
Lizardo...taking the 
print-out.

BUCKAROO BANZAI


RAWHIDE


PERFECT TOMMY


RENO


PERFECT TOMMY


RAWHIDE

with crazy eyes and flaming orange hair that once upon a time was mousy 
brown like yours.

BUCKAROO BANZAI


RAWHIDE


PERFECT TOMMY

Why?  What's going on?  Anything I oughta know?  C'mon, Rawhide, spill 
it.

Buckaroo nodding his permission...

RAWHIDE

discover the Eighth Dimension.  Almost fifty years ago.  Before 
Buckaroo's parents even knew each other.  But there was trouble, a 
rocket catapult failed and Dr. Lizardo got sucked half in, half 
out...when they hauled him back ,he wasn't the same guy.  His hair was 
orange...

BUCKAROO BANZAI


RAWHIDE

got caught and judged insane.  The professor told us they threw away 
the key.

PERFECT TOMMY


BUCKAROO BANZAI


Buckaroo heading for the door...Rawhide drawing a receipt book from his 
pocket.

RAWHIDE

signing.

Buckaroo and Reno automatically turning to Perfect Tommy...

PERFECT TOMMY


INT.  WORLD WATCH ONE/BUS - DAY	134

...the guys following Buckaroo into an amazing ELECTRONIC NERVE CENTER, 
like the rugged interior of an AWACS, dimly lighted instrument panels 
manned by two BLUE SHIELD TECHNICAL EXPERTS.

RADAR SHEILD ONE

disturbance over Connecticut.  Fallout from the Jet Car, you think?

BUCKAROO BANZAI

her up statistically, check it for the next twenty-four hours, then 
shovel the data over to Reno.

INT.  PASSENGER SECTION/BUS - DAY	135

Buckaroo coming through another heavy steel door, and for the first 
time we realize that we just might be on a MOVING BUS...

EXT.  POLICE STATION - ESTABLISHING - DAY	136

BUCKAROO'S BUS pulling up...BUCKAROO BANZAI AND THE HONG KONG CAVALIERS 
emblazoned along its side.

INT.  POLICE STATION - DAY	137

Waiting near the watch desk, Buckaroo's Jewish surgeon buddy, Dr. 
Zwibel...in a thousand-dollars worth of drugstore cowboy gear, a 
Hoppalong Cassidy hat, red alligator boots, listening to the local 
COUNTRY STATION on a suitcase size stereo...

...looking up as Buckaroo, Reno, and Perfect Tommy approach...

DR. ZWIBEL

had time to pack my saddlebags.

BUCKAROO BANZAI

(shaking hands)
Fellas, meet a medical colleague, Sid Zwibel.  He'll be riding with us 
from now on, so get acquainted while I snoop around.

Buckaroo heading over to the DESK SERGEANT on duty...

RENO


PERFECT TOMMY


DR. ZWIBEL

New Jersey!

RENO NEVADA


DR. ZWIBEL


PERFECT TOMMY

and introduce him to the rest of the hands.

RENO


PERFECT TOMMY


Reno picking up Doctor Zwibel's huge stereo and suitcase...

RENO


INT.  CELL - DAY	138

Penny sitting on her bunk, a disheveled mess...depressed, her head 
buried in her hands as Buckaroo arrives.  She sees his reflection in 
the pitiful mirror above her toilet...

PENNY PRIDDY


BUCKAROO BANZAI

any of this craziness.

PENNY PRIDDY


BUCKAROO BANZAI


PENNY PRIDDY


BUCKAROO BANZAI


Silence.  Penny realizing you don't fool this man with the sloppy 
bowtie...coming over to the bars...

PENNY PRIDDY


BUCKAROO BANZAI


PENNY PRIDDY


BUCKAROO BANZAI


PENNY PRIDDY


Meaning fixing his tie...which she's trying to do...

BUCKAROO BANZAI


PENNY PRIDDY


BUCKAROO BANZAI


PENNY PRIDDY

right, sure, I forgot: you know everything.

BUCKAROO BANZAI


Penny taking too long to retie Buckaroo's tie...an excuse to be near 
him...

BUCKAROO BANZAI


PENNY PRIDDY


Things really heating up between these two...Buckaroo changing the 
subject...blocking Perfect Tommy's view.

BUCKAROO BANZAI


PENNY PRIDDY


BUCKAROO BANZAI


PENNY PRIDDY

was adopted.

BUCKAROO BANZAI

me!

PENNY PRIDDY


BUCKAROO BANZAI

what you have...

Buckaroo touching her moist cheek, wiping away a tear.  Perfect Tommy 
and the Desk Sergeant exchanging looks...

PERFECT TOMMY


BUCKAROO BANZAI


PERFECT TOMMY


Buckaroo and Penny unable to look away from each other.

BUCKAROO BANZAI


INT.  PRESS CONFERENCE - AFTERNOON	139

REPORTERS, cameras, microphones, and a small audience of VIPS, civilian 
and military, in a large hotel conference room...eyes on the ticking 
clock...examining charts and MODELS OF SUBATOMIC PARTICLES...on the 
dais, Professor Hikita, Secretary of Defense McKinley and Senator 
Cunningham, waiting for Buckaroo.

	140

WEARING GLASSES practically FILL THEIR CUPS WITH CUBES OF SUGAR...one 
of their arms ELONGATING (1) for more sugar...THE STRANGE MOVE 
UNNOTICED...

	141

enter, Penny Priddy beside him...the glamorous couple surrounded by the 
Hong Kong Cavaliers.

	142

sweet coffee applauding only politely.

	143

positions of security as...

...Buckaroo sits next to Professor Hikita who shields his remarks from 
what must be easily FIFTY MICROPHONES...

PROF. HIKITA


BUCKAROO BANZAI

I'm assigning a couple Blue Shields to protect you around the clock, 
just in case.

Professor Hikita removing the OSCILLATION OVERTHRUSTER from his 
battered briefcase and laying it on the table.  Buckaroo taking a sip 
of water...

SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

owes us all a few explanations for yesterday's antics.

BUCKAROO BANZAI

ago, nearly to this day, my mother and father and Sir Alan Motley, all 
former colleagues of Professor Toichi Hikita at the Texas School of 
Mines, gave their lives for what was considered at the time an insane 
notion: the possibility of contacting alien life... not on another 
planet, but on a simultaneous plane of existence within solid 
matter...life which, before the war, Professor Hikita had actually 
glimpsed while pioneering a highly primitive gravity catapult with 
Doctor Emilio Lizardo.

1st REPORTER
The same Doctor Lizardo that just...?

PROF. HIKITA


	144



	145

several packs of 'Sweet 'n' Low' to their thick coffee as...

ON THE DAIS:	146

BUCKAROO BANZAI

talking twister physics.  Quantum Mechanics.  Now you see, now you 
don't.  This table I'm sitting behind?  It appears to be solid matter, 
right?

Buckaroo demonstrating by picking up his plastic water glass, dropping 
it, splashing water left and right as the container naturally bounces 
off the table...

BUCKAROO BANZAI

quarks, your neutrons and electrons...they comprise only about one 
quadrillionth of its total volume.

SECRETARY OF DEFENSE


BUCKAROO BANZAI

solid matter is mostly empty space, a person oughta be able to discover 
a to travel inside things like tables.  And mountains.

PROF. HIKITA

gradient synchronizer that softens solid matter by attenuating its 
electroweak forces!

BUCKAROO BANZAI

professor?

2nd REPORTER
What about the Pentagon?  The possibility of war in the Eighth 
Dimension, Mr. Secretary?

PENNY PRIDDY


SOME APPLAUSE, the Secretary of Defense eyeing Penny critically as the 
lights dim...as RADAR SHIELD ONE slips into the room, approaches the 
dais, and the FIRST SLIDE is projected onto the screen...

	147

SAILORS ABOARD nonetheless unmistakable...

CLOSE ON:	148

RADAR SHIELD ONE

The President's calling you, Buckaroo.

BUCKAROO BANZAI


RADAR SHIELD ONE


	149

plainly visible...7541.

EVERYONE CAPTIVATED.	150

BUCKAROO BANZAI


RADAR SHIELD ONE

Can't tell. It's real fuzzy. I patched him through to a pay phone down 
the hall.

PROF. HIKITA

in the North Atlantic. Long thought to have been torpedoed, these 
pictures of 7541 were taken yesterday in the Eighth Dimension.

SECRETARY OF DEFENSE


PROF. HIKITA


A loud murmur from the audience as the next slide in the projector 
proves to be a remarkable image...

...of AN UPSIDE DOWN SEVENTEENTH CENTURY PIRATE VESSEL.	151

...Buckaroo starting from the table only to be reminded by Penny:	152

PENNY PRIDDY


...handing him the OSCILLATION OVERTHRUSTER...Buckaroo declining it...

BUCKAROO BANZAI


PENNY PRIDDY


EXT.  OUTER SPACE - AFTERNOON	153

Meanwhile, several thousand miles overhead, a HUGE SPIKEY SPACECRAFT 
APPROACHES EARTH...

INT.  SPIKEY SPACECRAFT (FATHER SHIP) - AFTERNOON	154

A mysterious cloud room where BLACK BRRODING CREATURES perch upside 
down and sideways at controls in a smoky, vaporous environment, the 
only illumination EERIE YELLOW LIGHT...THE WALLS BREATHING.

BUCKAROO BANZAI'S VOICE


MORE NOISES, THE SOUND OF TELEPHONE SWITCHING EQUIPMENT...

INT.  CORRIDOR - AFTERNOON	155

Back at a pay phone in the corridor, Buckaroo trying to figure out why 
the President doesn't answer. 

RADAR SHIELD ONE

code.

BUCKAROO BANZAI


Nothing from the other end except ODD SOUNDING COMPUTER BEEPS and the 
STATIC-LADEN VOICES of several operators...

RAWHIDE


RENO


BUCKAROO BANZAI

Go back to the bus and reroute the call.

RAWHIDE

is on the level. We're busy people here.

	156

TO DO WITH ELECTRICITY...the telephone book scooting closer to 
Buckaroo's fingers as if drawn by a magnet, the pages then turning, 
faster and faster...

	157

shut, the phone simultaneously emitting a BIZARRE BUZZ...

	158

ELECTRICAL CURRENT PASSING THROUGH THE TELEPHONE...

...AND HURLING HIM OUT INTO THE COORIDOR!	159

BUCKAROO BANZAI


Reno complying, the lights returning to normal, Buckaroo dazed, his 
hand moving automatically, writing on any surface available.

A SPARK flying when he touches the metal-tipped pen to metal!	160

Buckaroo finally settling for his hand, SCRIBBLING NUMBERS ON HIS PALM.
	161

INT.  CONFERENCE ROOM - AFTERNOON	162

PROF. HIKITA

sophisticated rifle accelerator firing a steady stream of protons at a 
target-in this case a mountain-and the Jet Car as a giant super-
conducting magnet.

The Secretary of Defense fascinated.	163

SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

Dimensions?

PENNY PRIDDY

I don't guess they matter.  It's like cheesecloth, I think.  Minkowiski 
space...

...as all eyes turn to see a still woozy Buckaroo Banzai returning, 
pointing dramatically at John Gomez and John O'Connor in the 
audience...

BUCKAROO BANZAI


The Cavaliers haven't a clue what he's talking about...

RENO


	164




BUCKAROO BANZAI


	165

in the room seeing what Buckaroo does, seeing instead only those two 
redheaded gents who like their coffee sweet, John O'Connor and John 
Gomez...COULD THEY POSSIBLY BE THE CRIMSON CREATURES BUCKAROO THINKS 
ARE:

BUCKAROO BANZAI


SENATOR CUNNINGHAM


	166

RED ALIENS racing for the nearest exit!

	167

PIERCING SCREAM of Penny Priddy causes them to stop in their tracks and 
look toward the dais...

...where yet NOTHER REDHEAD called JOHN BIGBOOT, in glasses and dark 
suit, a bandanna over his face, has just stepped from behind the 
curtain and seized Professor Hikita, pointing a revolver at the old 
man's head...the Cavaliers instinctively stepping toward the dais, 
outraged...

JOHN BIGBOOT


...the masked John Bigboot FIRING once, wounding Reno in the 
shoulder...

JOHN BIGBOOT

history! 

The pistol stuck in Professor Hikita's ear convincing the Cavaliers to 
obey, to watch helplessly as the kidnapper backs his victim through the 
curtain and out of sight...as new Jersey administers first aid to Reno 
and Penny strokes the fallen Cavalier's hair, berating the idle 
bystanders around them:

PENNY PRIDDY

jellyfish wallowing in self-pity, prey to ruthless hoodlums who pick us 
off like flies?

SENATOR CUNNINGHAM

with the cry "So far and no farther will we be pushed!"

INT.  HOTEL BOWELS - MOVING - AFTERNOON	168

Buckaroo in the meantime running down a flight of stairs...catching 
sight of his prey...THOSE TWO MONSTROUS RED ALIENS running through a 
swinging door...

...Buckaroo accelerating, hitting the door with every ounce of strength 
in him...

INT.  UNDERGROUND PARKING GARAGE - LATE AFTERNOON	169

...Buckaroo flying through the door, taking a fall down concrete steps, 
finding himself in the hotel parking garage where a MOTORCYCLE SHOW is 
unloading equipment...

...Buckaroo spotting THREE SHADOWY FORMS halfway across the lot loading 
A LARGE CRATE into a van...

Buckaroo wasting no time going after the van, as it starts 
up...commandeering A FANCY NEW MOTORCYCLE, charging after the van 
despite an EXHIBITOR'S warning:

EXHIBITOR


INT.  CORRIDOR - LATE AFTERNOON	170

The Cavaliers coming from two directions, colliding at an 
intersection...

PERFECT TOMMY


RENO


RAWHIDE


EXT.  CITY STREETS - LATE AFTERNOON	171

The van speeds by...the motorcycle pursues!

EXT.  COUNTRYSIDE - LATE AFTERNOON	172

The chase continues, leaving the city behind...

EXT.  WOODED ROAD - LATER AFTERNOON	173

...the van coming straight toward us, thundering past...as Buckaroo and 
his motorcycle next roar INTO CAMERA in hot pursuit, and over his 
shoulder an AWESOME SIGHT...

...A DARK, UNNERVINGLY PREHISTORIC CREATURE FLYING DIRECTLY AT US, 



EXT.  FIELD - LATE AFTERNOON	174

Twilight enveloping a New Jersey meadow as a pair of DUCK HUNTERS and 
their DOG takes advantage of the last half hour of fading daylight 
as...

...that BLACK CREATURE wings overhead!	175

	176

this sudden threat from above!

	177

shudder!

The hunters transfixed...	178

DUCK HUNTERS


The FRIGHTFUL sound of the CREATURE'S FAILING LUNGS...a terrific noise 
as the duck hunters hurry to where their unnatural kill hangs obscured 
in a gigantic tree...their dog running ahead, intent on retrieving this 
unusual "BIRD"...

EXT.  TREE - LATE AFTERNOON	179

The heavy-footed hunters SLOSHING THROUGH WATER, the first hunter to 
arrive on the scene using a sharp stick to poke at a BULGING BLADDER on 
the bottom of the strange creature, the sac bursting and drenching the 
hunter with a hideous viscous fluid...SPARKS!  AND A STRANGE BLUE 
DUST...

	180

rolling toward the hunter who poked that sac...

DUCK HUNTERS


The other hunter following the ODD SPERE as it backs his buddy into a 
shallow swamp...the thing coming to a stop and...

	181

vessel, trying to balance himself when he slips and crashes to the 
ground, his neck breaking...a beam from his dropped 'flashlight' 
revealing him in death to be not a black man, but a BLACK ALIEN WITH A 
THREE-FINGERED HAND...

	182

now a second BLACK MAN has emerged, running for the road, jumping the 
fence like a gazelle...

	183

a BUCKAROO BANZAI COMIC BOOK they've discovered in the dead alien's 
fingers.

1ST HUNTER


EXT.  COUNTRYSIDE - TWILIGHT	184

Buckaroo still on his MOTORCYCLE in pursuit of the van, taking a daring 
shortcut down a treacherous hillside...

INT.  VAN - TWILIGHT	185

Alien John Bigboot at the wheel, alien John Gomez riding shotgun, in 
high spirits, cradling a DRY CELL BATTERY, his strange tongue upon it, 
getting high...his teeth glowing.

Bigboot turning in his seat, overhearing alien John O'Connor operating 
a RADIO in the rear of the speeding van...

JOHN O'CONNOR

(listening)
A black thermopod's been shot down ten miles back.

JOHN BIGBOOT


John Bigboot looking at John Gomez for any possible explanation.

JOHN GOMEZ


JOHN O'CONNER

six hundred sixty million miles away.

JOHN BIGBOOT

They know everything!  I told Whorfin to sit tight.  This could be the 
end of us all!  We gotta get Banzai's Overthruster and get off this 
rock!

EXT.  VAN - TWILIGHT	186

The van making a 180( turn!

INT.  VAN - TWILIGHT	187

John Bigboot yelling back to John O'Connor:

JOHN BIGBOOT


JOHN O'CONNOR


John Gomez opening the glove compartment, taking out a pistol:

JOHN GOMEZ


JOHN O'CONNOR


John Bigboot just driving...his strange eyes set.

EXT.  ROAD - TWILIGHT	188

Buckaroo rounding a curve on his motorcycle when that van is suddenly 
upon him, coming head on!

Buckaroo just having a split-second to catch the logo 'Yoyodyne' on the 
front of the van as he swerves into a ditch to avoid certain death...

	189

ARMY LIGHTER/MINIATURE TWO-WAY RADIO, making a call to:

BUCKAROO BANZAI


INT.  PRESS CONFERENCE ROOM - TWILIGHT	190

Back in the press conference room, the anxious Cavaliers try to help 
several LAW ENFORCEMENT TYPES reconstruct the professor's kidnapping.  
A TINY BUZZER going off in Rawhide's pocket:  his SWISS ARMY CIGARETTE 
LIGHTER.  Rawhide turns his Back on everyone, taking out a pack of 
Luckies, lighting up as he talks quietly into the FLAME:

RAWHIDE

lotta static.

EXT.  ROAD - TWILIGHT	191

Buckaroo pushing and shoving his motorcycle onto a woodland path...IT 
IS GETTING QUITE DARK...

BUCKAROO BANZAI

homing beacon, mark two minute intervals.

RAWHIDE


BUCKAROO BANZAI

(realizing)
That crate!

INT.  PRESS CONFERENCE ROOM - TWILIGHT	192

Elsewhere in the room, nervous and concerned, Penny Priddy sits apart 
from the others, thumping the keys of a piano...

RAWHIDE


BUCKAROO BANZAI

dig up everything you can on an outfit called Yoyodyne.

RAWHIDE

Yoyodyne Propulsion Systems?  You think they're mixed up in this?

...Reno sitting down next to Penny at the piano, his wounded arm in a 
sling but his fingers nimble as ever...

PENNY PRIDDY


RENO


PENNY PRIDDY


RENO

some action.  Seen plenty of it too.  So will you if you stick around.

PENNY PRIDDY


RENO


Rawhide calling from across the room...

RAWHIDE


Reno getting up, Penny unsure at that moment whether she's being 
included, as those steely eyes of Rawhide zero in on her...

RAWHIDE


EXT.  ROAD - NIGHT	193

Darkness as Buckaroo races on, the taillights of the van far ahead...

INT.  VAN - NIGHT	194

John Gomez now sharing his DRY CELL BATTERY with John O'Connor, the two 
of them singing a SONG from their home planet...

...John Bigboot at the wheel, preoccupied, refusing their offer of a 
toke on the battery with:

JOHN BIGBOOT


EXT.  CRASH SITE - NIGHT	195

The Yoyodyne van approaching the scene of the downed spacecraft, the 
headlights of the single HIGHWAY PATROL CAR illuminating the CORPSE OF 
THE DEAD CREATURE in the water...the HIGHWAY PATROLMAN pulling the 
figure out of the water, the hunters standing by...

HIGHWAY PATROLMAN


2ND HUNTER


The other hunter tossing a plastic tarp over the body as they all turn 
to regard the headlights of the Yoyodyne van...the cop heading that 
way...

	196

heavy brush, creeping closer to the crash site for a better look...

	197

CREATURE on the ground, covered now with a sheet of semi-transparent 
plastic...observing John Bigboot and John Gomez producing official 
I.D.s and appearing to BUCKAROO AS CRIMSON ALIENS...TO THE COPS AS...

ORDINARY CITIZENS:	198

JOHN BIGBOOT

Systems.

JOHN GOMEZ

One of our birds.

The highway patrolman returning Bigboot's I.D., still a little 
skeptical about the whole thing, pointing to THE DEAD CREATURE UNDER 
PLASTIC.

HIGHWAY PATROLMAN


John Bigboot having a ready answer...

JOHN BIGBOOT


	199

rear door with a locksmith's pick attached to his special SWISS ARMY 
LIGHTER.

ELECTRICITY JUMPING FROM HIS FINGERS.	200

Buckaroo dropping the two-way radio homing device on the bumper...
	201

INT.  VAN - CRASH SITE - NIGHT	202

The sound of the Swiss Army lighter jolting red alien John 
O'Connor...O'Connor thinking the noise has come from the crate 
itself...

JOHN O'CONNOR


John O'Connor stepping out for a smoke.

EXT.  VAN - NIGHT	203

Buckaroo watching the alien John O'Connor move off in the direction of 
the hunters, retrieving his dropped Swiss Army lighter, not noticing 
that the once blinking L.E.D. on the homing device has gone out!  
Buckaroo again picking the lock...

EXT.  CRASH SITE - NIGHT	204

...ordinary citizen John O'Connor meanwhile observing the hunters still 
hanging around, one of them engrossed in the Buckaroo comic, his pal 
trying to figure out how to operate the dead alien's unusual 
flashlight...

JOHN O'CONNOR


INT.  VAN - NIGHT	205

...as Buckaroo stealthily enters, working the lock on the crate now 
with his all-purpose lighter.

CLOSE ON HIS FINGERS EMITTING THE OCCASIONAL SPARK...	206

EXT.  SWAMP - NIGHT	207

John Bigboot, John Gomez, and the cop looming above the dead 
creature...

HIGHWAY PATROLMAN

they're nothing like this-

JOHN GOMEZ


John Bigboot shooting John Gomez a hard stare...

HIGHWAY PATROLMAN


JOHN BIGBOOT


HIGHWAY PATROLMAN

Right up his alley, I think.

John Bigboot's mood suddenly changing...tensing...

JOHN BIGBOOT


HIGHWAY PATROLMAN


The three of them looking up at another pair of headlights arriving, A 
SEDAN, the cop yelling at them:

HIGHWAY PATROLMAN


JOHN GOMEZ

could become a zoo, not to mention a haven for gawkers.

The highway patrolman moving off to deal with the sedan...

JOHN BIGBOOT


HIGHWAY PATROLMAN


John Bigboot frowning, telling John Gomez:

JOHN BIGBOOT


John Gomez nodding, heading back to the van...

INT.  VAN - NIGHT	208

...as Buckaroo pries his way into the crate, extracting the shaken 
Professor Hikita.

A SPARK dancing between them as they touch!	209

	210



BUCKAROO BANZAI

flapjacks.

PROF. HIKITA


BUCKAROO BANZAI

Form the Eighth Dimension, I think.  Look...

Buckaroo trying to show Professor Hikita the MATHEMATICAL FORMULA 
written on his hand.

PROF. HIKITA


Buckaroo holding a finger to his lips...whispering...

BUCKAROO BANZAI

What is it?

PROF. HIKITA


BUCKAROO BANZAI

scribble this and gave me the ability to penetrate their disguises.

Buckaroo opening the door to the van.

BUCKAROO SEES the red alien John Gomez coming closer...	211

	212



BUCKAROO BANZAI


PROF. HIKITA


BUCKAROO BANZAI

There's a Harley behind those bushes.  Get back to the laboratory and 
start working on the formula.  We don't have time to ask questions.  
Just synthesize it-

The professor still without the crucial information, however...John 
Gomez approaching...

PROF. HIKITA


Thinking fast, Buckaroo presses the palm of his hand to Professor 
Hikita's forehead, the ball-point ink transferring...THE IMPORTANT 
FORMULA IMPRINTED IN REVERSE ON THE PROFESSOR'S SHINY PATE...

BUCKAROO BANZAI


EXT.  ROAD - NIGHT	213

The highway patrolman talking to the sedan...TWO SHADOWY FIGURES 
INSIDE...

HIGHWAY PATROLMAN


INT.  WOLD WATCH ONE/BUS - NIGHT	214

Meanwhile back on Buckaroo's bus, in the nerve center, Rawhide and 
Perfect Tommy look at a BLANK OSCILLOSCOPE operated by a Blue Shield 
Technician...

PERFECT TOMMY


RAWHIDE

known location--

	215

Buckaroo's last location.

	216


radius.

PERFECT TOMMY


EXT.  CRASH SITE - NIGHT	217

Buckaroo moving dangerously closer to the thermopod as the alien John 
Gomez returns with the crowbar...his other-worldly comrade demanding:

JOHN BIGBOOT


	218

SEDAN SITTING TIGHT.

INT.  GAS STATION - NIGHT	219

Inside an all-night gas station somewhere in New Jersey, a young black 
kid named SCOOTER LINDLEY at his SPECIAL HAM RADIO SET, hearing:

PERFECT TOMMY'S VOICE

Irregulars in the Clam State.  Bucakroo in trouble...will repeat 
coordinates...

SCOOTER LINDLEY

on!

EXT.  GAS STATION - NIGHT	220

Scooter racing outside toward his father, CASPER LINDLEY, the station 
owner, an everyday no-nonsense guy in grungy overalls, presently trying 
to sell a crushed velvet sofa from the top of a three-tier display rack 
to a PAIR OF DISCRIMINATING CUSTOMERS...

SCOOTER LINDLEY


CASPER LINDLEY


INT.  PASSENGER SECTION/BUS - NIGHT	221

A weary, worried Rawhide comes back into the front of the bus and takes 
a seat near Penny and Reno...

NEW JERSEY


RAWHIDE


Reno wondering if there's more to it than Rawhide's saying...Rawhide 
losing himself in a copy of American Horseman.

Penny leaning forward, thinking, picking at a guitar left on the seat 
in front of her, watching the mysterious Hong Kong Cavaliers.

	222

nodding...

Penny looking over at Perfect Tommy across the aisle, Perfect Tommy 
confiscating the guitar...his guitar.

PENNY PRIDDY


RENO

thing?

PENNY PRIDDY


EXT.  CRASH SITE - NIGHT	223

Buckaroo jockeying for an improved position, as the alien John Gomez 
prepares to strike the pod-TWO MEN getting out of the sedan 
now...ARACHTOIDS in baggy suits...

...THE CROWBAR HITTING THE POD for the first time!

	224


HIGHWAY PATROLMAN


The cop in a jam, heading back toward the pod, as the two newly arrived 
redheads follow him despite his instructions:

HIGHWAY PATROLMAN

outta here!

...the two goons halting...but as soon as the cop turns, they follow 
him again...

EXT.  FRONT GATES/BANZAI INSTITUTE - NIGHT	225

A modest estate, several unique buildings on several acres of rolling 
Midlothian grassland, home of Buckaroo Banzai and the Hong Kong 
Cavaliers...that famous Double B logo festooning a large front gate...a 
sign: THE BANZAI INSTITUTE FOR BIOMEDICAL ENGINEERING AND STRATEGIC 
INFORMATION.

	226

sleeping bags and cameras...a wave of excitement rippling through the 
crowd as BUCKAROO'S DOUBLE BUS approaches and THREE BLUE SHIELDS on 
guard begin opening the gate.

INT.  FOYER/BUCKAROO'S HOUSE - NIGHT	227

A combination Japanese ryokan-American ranch house, an elegant 
reflection of Buckaroo's dual lineage...a teenage girl heading for the 
door to answer an insistent buzzer...she MRS. JOHNSON...

	228

reacting as if she's seen a ghost...

MRS. JOHNSON


RENO


MRS. JOHNSON


RAWHIDE


MRS. JOHNSON


The Cavaliers quickly dispersing...Penny left alone under Mrs. 
Johnson's curious eyes...

INT.  STUDIO-COMPUTER ROOM - NIGHT	229

...the Cavaliers stepping into a home studio, a tangle of wires and 
microphones, mixing consoles and data banks tended by a skeleton crew 
of BLUE SHIELD TECHNICIANS...one a brainy, wiry kid in his late teens.

BRAINY KID


RAWHIDE

Department checked into last year-Yoyodyne Propulsion Systems?

BRAINY KID (BILLY)

delivery of the controversial new Truncheon Bomber?

PERFECT TOMMY

systems.  Up to it?

BILLY

the big ice cream social...

NEW JERSEY


BILLY


EXT.  CRASH SITE - NIGHT	230

Buckaroo watches the alien John Gomez deliver ANOTHER BLOW to the black 
space pod, as inside...

INT.  BLACK THERMOPOD - NIGHT	231

...sits a single BLACK ARACHTOID CREWMAN named JOHN GANT, stoically at 
this communications console, trying to focus on a DISTORTED PICTURE 
FROM DEEP SPACE even as his enemy pounds and cuts through the hull...

CLOSE ON CONSOLE	232

...the picture of his video console coming into focus: a HIGHER-RANKING 
BLACK ARACHTOID WING COMMANDER ON TV:

BLACK ARACHTOID COMMANDER


INT.  FATHER SHIP - NIGHT	233

...the BLACK ARACHTOID WING COMMANDER standing at his radio-video 
console, receiving a picture of "John Gant"...

ON TV	234

JOHN GANT

ones.  John Valuk is dead.  He fell on his head, but perhaps John 
Parker will get through!

The screen going dark.

	235

command...

SECOND-IN-COMMAND

thermopod at once to contact Buckaroo Banzai!

BLACK ARACHTOID COMMANDER


INT.  VAN - NIGHT	236

The alien John O'Connor looking in on the crate...finding it 
empty...lid off...

EXT.  CRASH SITE - NIGHT	237

Ordinary citizen John Gomez HITTING the little thermopod again, the cop 
exasperated, pushed to the brink, surrounded...

HIGHWAY PATROLMAN


The cop reaches for his pistol when suddenly John Bigboot whirls and 
lunges out with HIS TELESCOPING ARM, chopping the cop's Adam's apple, 
knocking him to the ground...

...the hunters stunned, one of them reaching for a shotgun when the two 
newly-arrived Yoyodyne goons attack, easily knocking the hunters to the 
ground, beating them!

	238

shoulder!  Spinning him around!

VOICE


Buckaroo face-to-face with RED ARACHTOID John O'Connor, the latter 
surprised to discover it's...

JOHN O'CONNOR


Buckaroo taking advantage of this creature's momentary amazement to 
kick O'Connor below the belt...dropping him to the turf...now spying 
yet another set of headlights coming down the road...

JOHN O'CONNOR

It's Buckaroo Banzai! Get him! He let the professor outta the box!

	239

bearing down on them...Buckaroo waving back at the truck, his only 
chance, when suddenly, instead of slowing, the truck speeds up, trying 
to run him over...YOYODYNE!

...Buckaroo lunging to safety at the last minute, getting up and 
running into a field...the Yoyodyne truck making a 180( turn and coming 
after him, across the meadow.

	240

THERMOPOD EXPLODES, Buckaroo and the goons flying to the ground, 
Buckaroo quickly up and running, the truck gaining on 
him...gaining...still gaining when out of nowhere, A ROPE LADDER falls 
from the sky, entangling Buckaroo and pulling him up to a hovering 
HELICOPER...

INT.  HELICOPTER - NIGHT	241

Piloting the small chopper, Casper Lindley, gas station proprietor, 
along with his eager son, Scooter...both father and son dressed in Blue 
Shield outfits now...Casper giving Buckaroo a helping hand into the 
swift-flying craft and getting a MILD ELECTRICAL SHOCK, COMING THIS 
CLOSE TO DROPPING BUCKAROO!

CASPER LINDLEY

Blue Shield, at your disposal.  And my son, Scooter.

BUCKAROO BANZAI

tonight.  Mind if I get on the horn and radio the Cavaliers--?  They'll 
be worried.

Buckaroo reaching for the mike, relieved to feel only a SLIGHT 
ELECTRICAL CHARGE on touching it...

BUCKAROO BANZAI


SCOOTER LINDLEY


EXT.  FRONT GATES/BUCKAROO'S HOUSE - NIGHT	242

Professor Hikita on motorcycle, being waved through the front gate by a 
BLUE SHIELD GUARD while a second Shield, PINKY CARRUTHERS (on 
HORSEBACK), telephones ahead...

PINKY CARRUTHERS

disturb."

INT.  STUDIO COMPUTER ROOM - NIGHT	243

Reno on the phone, getting the word on Hikita while the other Cavaliers 
watch Billy call up a strange senseless MAZE OF LETTERS AND NUMBERS on 
his monitor...

RAWHIDE


BILLY 


NEW JERSEY


	244

coherent...a batch of names and dates, vital statistics...headed 
"YOYODYNE."

	245


Could be highly revealing.

RENO

The professor just pulled in, jabbering something about space monsters, 
locked himself in his lab.

PERFECT TOMMY


INT.  HALLWAY/BUCKAROO'S HOUSE - NIGHT	246

Mrs. Johnson leading Penny down a richly paneled corridor past pictures 
and momentoes of Buckaroo and the Cavaliers, past and present...

MRS. JOHNSON

then see what happened to Buckaroo's last sweetheart happen to you.

PENNY PRIDDY


Mrs. Johnson biting her tongue...

MRS. JOHNSON


PENNY PRIDDY


MRS. JOHNSON


Penny staring at this strange young girl, not knowing what to say...

PENNY PRIDDY


MRS. JOHNSON


...Mrs. Johnson opening a guest room door...Penny eyeing those 
forbidden stairs...

INT.  STUDIO COMPUTER ROOM - NIGHT	247

BILLY


Billy staring intently at the monitor...the others leaning in...

	248

OF NAMES.

	249


Jersey on the exact same date.

NEW JERSEY


BILLY


RAWHIDE


RENO

birth.  And all of them with the same first name: John.

New Jersey studying the screen...

NEW JERSEY

November...when short February's done, all the rest have thirty-one. 
October 31st!  Halloween!  Don't you get it? 
(obviously not)
Orson Welles!

BILLY 


NEW JERSEY

that got everybody scared, thinking that real live Martians were 
landing in Grover's Mill, New Jersey!  But then it all just turned out 
to be a hoax.

BILLY


RENO


NEW JERSEY


RENO


BILLY


EXT.  FRONT GATES/BUCKAROO'S HOUSE - NIGHT	250

Pinky Carruthers aboard his palomino as JOHN PARKER (the only alien to 
escape the black thermopod) rides up outside the gate on a 
bicycle...holding a STRANGE YELLOW RECORD in his grasp...

PINKY CARRUTHERS


JOHN PARKER


PINKY CARRUTHERS


Pinky Carruthers snatching the ODD YELLOW RECORD through the gate...

JOHN PARKER

yourself.

PINKY CARRUTHERS

see" Buckaroo in person.

And with that Pinky Carruthers is gone, trotting up toward the mansion 
on his palomino...

...as a frustrated John Parker suddenly sticks his nose in the air, 
getting a whiff of something, causing him to get on his bike and 
pedal...

EXT.  OUTSIDE SECURITY WALL - NIGHT	251

...around the corner of Buckaroo's estate where he notices a PARKED VAN 
and THREE SHADOWY FIGURES lowering themselves into the ground near the 
high security wall...disappearing...

...John Parker approaching, beholding...that familiar "Yoyodyne" 
van...and a FRESHLY DUG HOLE, crawling into the hold himself.

EXT.  BANZAI INSTITUTE GROUNDS - NIGHT	252

...surfacing WITHIN THE WALLS OF THE ESTATE and again catching sight of 
THE SHADOWY FIGURES moving toward the buildings, John Parker 
following...quickly ducking behind a tree, trying to get himself a good 
view of the three intruders...

SUDDEN VOICE


John Parker jerking his head around, finding himself confronting the 
FRIGHTENING SILHOUETTE of a Blue Shield in camouflage commando gear...

	253

without warning, a second BLUE SHIELD drops on his head from the tree 
above, knocking him down...

INT.  GARAGE - NIGHT	254

Closed...SAM, the mechanic, next to Buckaroo's precious JET CAR, 
tinkering with that damaged Harley Davidson...the garage door suddenly 
sliding open, startling Sam...no one there.

SAM


EXT.  GARAGE - NIGHT	255

In the buses, CLOSE ON SOMETHING WEIRD EMERGING SLOWLY FROM TEH ALIEN 
JOHN BIGBOOT'S MOUTH...SHARP...

Sam stepping forward...A FIVE-PRONGED ORGANIC STINGER THE SIZE OF A 
WALNUT FLYING OUT OF THE NIGHT!  A scream dying in Sam's throat as he 
clutches his heart, John Bigboot dragging him back into the garage.

INT.  GARAGE - NIGHT	256

...while the red alien John Gomez remains outside as a lookout, the 
alien John O'Connor quickly peering into the locked Jet Car and 
smashing the window, searching in vain for the OSCILLATION 
OVERTHRUSTER...

JOHN O'CONNOR


JOHN BIGBOOT


JOHN O'CONNOR


JOHN GOMEZ


EXT.  GARAGE - NIGHT	257

Outside, John Gomez making a startling discovery: the figure of 
Professor Hikita near an upstairs window of the research building only 
yards away...when suddenly overhead...

	258

trees as the alien intruders scatter for cover.

INT.  DEN - NIGHT	259

Mrs. Johnson sitting near a crackling fire, at a small desk stacked 
high with books and papers, her nose in an advanced chemical 
engineering text.

...looking up as the front door opens, admitting Buckaroo Banzai, 
Casper and Scooter bringing up the rear...

MRS. JOHNSON


BUCKAROO BANZAI


MRS. JOHNSON


A shaken Rawhide, Reno, Perfect Tommy appearing on the stairway...

RENO 


BUCKAROO BANZAI


RAWHIDE


Buckaroo heading up the stairs...

	260

men, being debriefed on the run:

BUCKAROO BANZAI

Tommy?  The invisible body?

PERFECT TOMMY

at Grover's Mills, New Jersey...

RENO

they fooled Orson Welles into covering it up!  And then they founded 
Yoyodyne Propulsion Systems and hid there for...

BUCKAROO BANZAI


PERFECT TOMMY

around with his own stupid Overthruster.

RAWHIDE


RENO

that stole the good doc's body the year before in the Eighth Dimension 
when Prof. Hikita's lab exploded...

BUCKAROO BANZAI

snapped?  Of course!  What else?

PERFECT TOMMY

talk to the head honcho.

BUCKAROO BANZAI


INT.  INSTITUTE LABORATORY - NIGHT	261

Professor Hikita and his assistant toil away, starting at...

	262

TINY GLOWING GREEN PARTICLES...

	263

HIS FOREHEAD by looking into a mirror.

INT.  BUCKAROO'S STUDY - NIGHT	264

...while Billy places John Parker's UNUSUAL YELLOW RECORD on a 
turntable in Buckaroo's cluttered office...Casper and Scooter and the 
Cavaliers seeking protection behind a PLEXIGLAS 'BLACKBOARD', their 
faces seen through a maze of mathematical symbols and equations...

	265

STILL POSSESSES ENOUGH STATIC ELECTRICITY IN HIS HAND TO DRAW A SHEET 


RENO 


	266

of SMOKE AND SPARKS, A GORGEOUS BLACK HUMAN FEMAL sizzles up from the 
grooves of the record and hovers in mid-air...A HOLOGRAM!

HOLOGRAM

A common grave danger confronts both our worlds.

INT.  CORRIDOR - NIGHT	267

Meanwhile out in the corridor, Mrs. Johnson advances with a load of 
cold beers and Birdseye burritos...passing by a figure frozen in the 
shadows...OUR POV: THE ALIEN JOHN O'CONNOR.  Mrs. Johnson gone, none 
the wiser.

INT.  BUCKAROO'S STUDY - NIGHT	268

Mrs. Johnson entering, dropping some of her load in shock at the sight 
of beautiful John Emdall floating free in the center of the room...

MRS. JOHNSON


Reno picking her things up, as Mrs. Johnson backs away from the 
HOLOGRAM and sticks the burritos in a portable microwave oven in the 
corner of Buckaroo's desk...

	269


the self-proclaimed "Lord" Whorfin, a bloodthirsty butcher as evil as 
your Hitler was overthrown by freedom-loving forces, tried, and 
condemned, along with several hundred of his followers, to spend 
eternity in the formless void of the Eighth Dimension. Death was deemed 
too good for their ilk.

	270



MRS. JOHNSON


BUCKAROO BANZAI


	271


the real Doctor Lizardo, then John Whorfin would still be locked safely 
away on another plane of existence.

	272

in the room...

PINKY CARRUTHERS

dressed up in aluminum foil.  With a weird album...how the hell was I 
supposed to know he came from outer space?

Buckaroo moving dangerously close to the HOLOGRAM...

John Emdall suddenly pointing right at the great man...	273

JOHN EMDALL

further with your Oscillation Overthruster! For our intelligence warns 
us that John Whorfin is about to make good his escape from Earth back 
through the Eighth Dimension...and on to Planet 10! If he should 
attempt this we will have no choice but to disrupt worldwide electronic 
communications and fire a particle beam weapon from your airspace to 
Smolensk, in the Union of the Soviet Socialist Republics.

PERFECT TOMMY

first strike!

JOHN EMDALL

Widmark will launch a massive counterforce strike...and within twenty 
minutes the danger to Planet 10 will be removed...

RENO


JOHN EMDALL

planet.  Stop John Whorfin before sunrise! If you fail we will be 
forced to help you destroy yourselves.  End of discussion.

	274

downward into the grooves of the record again.

	275



BUCKAROO BANZAI


CASPER LINDLEY


BUCKAROO BANZAI

Mrs. Johnson, take Casper and Scooter, gas up the Jet Car.

SCOOTER LINDLEY


Buckaroo heading for the door...

RENO


BUCKAROO BANZAI


PERFECT TOMMY


INT.  INSTITUTE LABORATORY - NIGHT	276

...Professor Hikita and his assistant leaning over the electron tube 
apparatus, removing a rubber stopper from one of the receptacles, in 
the process GETTING AN ACCIDENTAL WHIFF of that BIZARRE GLOWING GREEN 
COMPOUND...Professor Hikita and assistant letting out gasps, seeing a 
sight that nearly stops their hearts...

THEIR POV	277

AT THE WINDOW...JOHN BIGBOOT...AND A RED ARACHTOID!

	278

OVERTHRUSTER and knocking over a chair, as THE ALIEN CREATURE smashes 
the window!

INT.  INSTITUTE CORRIDOR - NIGHT	279

Rawhide, hearing screams from the Professor's laboratory, races down 
the corridor, gun drawn...

INT.  BUCKAROO'S BEDROOM - NIGHT	280

Buckaroo coming into his bedroom, opening a dresser drawer when 
suddenly...A NOISE BEHIND HIM!  Buckaroo whirling instinctively with 
twin EBONY HANDLED COLTS a fraction of a second from firing...at PENNY!

...the latter poking her head out of Buckaroo's closet just long enough 
to see him aim his silver pistols, jumping back into the closet, 
slamming the door...an exasperated Buckaroo stepping over to the 
closet, finding it locked...knocking...

BUCKAROO BANZAI


PENNY PRIDDY

thought you liked me for myself.  But why should you, huh?  A jerk like 
me.

Buckaroo understanding at last the reason for Penny's odd behavior, 
seeing THE PHOTOGRAPH on his bedstand of a younger, possibly not-yet-
so-world-famous Buckaroo Banzai in tuxedo...his pretty companion A DEAD 
RINGER FOR PENNY.

BUCKAROO BANZAI


PENNY'S VOICE


BUCKAROO BANZAI

maybe coming to an end and I can't stand here and talk to a closet 
door.

PENNY'S VOICE

remind you of her.

Buckaroo fidgeting, precious seconds ticking away...

BUCKAROO BANZAI

arachtoids and all...but briefly she was your long lost twin sister, we 
got married, and that's about all I can say.  Right now.
(no response)
Penny?

A silence from the other side, the closet door unlocking...slowly 
opening, revealing Penny standing in the middle of a pile of female 
clothing...

PENNY PRIDDY

she?  With the kids some place?

Buckaroo turning...Penny eyeing him, penetrating his soul...

PENNY PRIDDY

you...

BUCKAROO BANZAI


PENNY PRIDDY


BUCKAROO BANZAI


A pregnant pause, the pain evident on Buckaroo's face as he turns back 
to the job at hand, picking up his holster and rummaging through the 
dresser drawer, fighting back the painful memories...

PENNY PRIDDY


BUCKAROO BANZAI

here!

PENNY PRIDDY


BUCKAROO BANZAI


PENNY PRIDDY


BUCKAROO BANZAI


PENNY PRIDDY

League?  Supreme Commander of the Legion of Death?  The Pivot of 
Mystery himself?  You're putting me on.  He's a cartoon character.

BUCKAROO BANZAI


Penny having to sit down and think about this as Buckaroo straps on his 
guns...changes his torn and shredded jacket...Penny looking at a 
BUCKAROO BANZAI COMIC BOOK on the night stand...then at the framed 
photograph of Peggy...

PENNY PRIDDY

I guess is good, under the circumstances.  I bet you'll never forget 
her though.

One look at Buckaroo says it all...

BUCKAROO BANZAI


PENNY PRIDDY

mixed emotions-I don't know if I can handle this.  Oh, boy...

BUCKAROO BANZAI


PENNY PRIDDY


BUCKAROO BANZAI

Please, Penny.  You just gotta trust me now.  Okay?  And don't panic.  
Because it's gonna be all right.

PENNY PRIDDY


BUCKAROO BANZAI


PENNY PRIDDY


BUCKAROO BANZAI


Penny looks into his eyes...

PENNY PRIDDY

adventure?  Oh, my God, it's all real...it really is real.  I should go 
with you.  Please...

BUCKAROO BANZAI


PENNY PRIDDY


Starry-eyed, she leans forward to kiss him, Buckaroo about to oblige 
when their fingers touch, Penny getting a MILD ELECTRICAL SHOCK...

...the door suddenly opens and Perfect Tommy sticks his head in...
	281

PERFECT TOMMY

Buckaroo--! Sorry--

BUCKAROO BANZAI


PERFECT TOMMY

haywire over at the lab...

Buckaroo running for the door, calling over his shoulder to Penny:

BUCKAROO BANZAI


PENNY PRIDDY


EXT.  BUCKAROO'S HOUSE - NIGHT	282

Buckaroo, the Cavaliers, and the Lindleys race out of the house toward 
the research building...

INT.  BUCKAROO'S BEDROOM - NIGHT	283

Penny hurriedly changes clothes...puts on Peggy's clothes...when 
suddenly THE SIGHT OF JOHN O'CONNOR standing in the hallway door, 
leering at her...

PENNY PRIDDY


John O'Connor, remembering her from the press conference...

JOHN O'CONNOR


John O'Connor vanishing...Penny again at a loss...

INT.  BANZAI INSTITUTE - NIGHT	284

Buckaroo and the Cavaliers running inside, racing up a bright yellow 
staircase to the second floor...

INT.  INSTITUTE LABORATORY - NIGHT	285

Buckaroo and the Cavaliers entering, finding the motionless lab 
assistant in Professor Hikita's wrecked laboratory...

BUCKAROO BANZAI


PERFECT TOMMY


RENO


CASPER


NEW JERSEY


BUCKAROO BANZAI


INT.  INSTITUTE CORRIDORS - NIGHT	286

SHOTS of Cavaliers in empty hallways, guns drawn, discovering evidence 
of intruders...OFFICES RANSACKED, FURNITURE UPSET...EXPERIMENTS FOULED 
UP...

	287

hallway...turning the corner...

INT.  DRAFTING ROOM - NIGHT	288

...stepping into a LARGE ROOM clouded with SMOKE from a burning file 
cabinet, Rawhide and a HULDING FORM struggling in the gloom...

...Buckaroo unable to get a clear shot at the beast when suddenly 
Rawhide succeeds in knocking his adversary to the floor, the "man" 
HISSING!

RAWHIDE


Rawhide putting himself in the line of fire, suddenly clutching his 
lower back...Buckaroo starting toward Rawhide but...

RAWHIDE


Buckaroo turning as THE SHADOW OF THE ALIEN JOHN O'CONNOR falls on his 
back!

...Buckaroo firing his guns, wounding the creature, the disoriented 
FIGURE retreating out into the corridor as Buckaroo turns in time to 
see Rawhide's assailant dive into a hole in the floor!  A hole in the 
floor?

BUCKAROO BANZAI


RAWHIDE

Overthruster...

Buckaroo edging toward that strange orifice in the linoleum, going into 
it himself...

INT.  DOWNSTAIRS CORRIDOR - NIGHT	289

As Penny rushes in, her ears picking up weird noises...THE SOUND OF 
PEOPLE in the acoustical tiles overhead...Penny trying to follow the 
racket down the first-floor hallway...

INT.  CRAWL SPACE - NIGHT	290

Buckaroo in the dim light of the crawl space, making his way past air-
conditioning ducts toward the sound of someone or something crawling up 
ahead...

BUCKAROO BANZAI


PROF. HIKITA'S VOICE


SOUNDS IN THE DARKNESS, Buckaroo holding his pistol still at the ready 
but useless in these cramped quarters...Buckaroo finding a worklight, 
flicking it on...

INT.  DOWNSTAIRS OFFICE - NIGHT	291

Penny meanwhile following the NOISES AND VOICES OVERHEAD into an empty 
office, grabbing a ladder and knocking out a ceiling panel...

PENNY PRIDDY


	292

that very office...the wounded John O'Connor sitting in a swivel desk 
chair behind the door, oozing blood of a strange color and consistency, 
staring ferociously at Penny...MORE CLATTER OVERHEAD...as Penny 
elevates herself partially into the hole...

INT.  CRAWL SPACE - NIGHT	293

PENNY'S POV...Professor Hikita only yards away, on his belly, able to 
come no further, unable to wedge himself beneath a large duct...the 
arachtoid John Bigboot closing in behind the professor...Buckaroo 
closing in behind Bigboot.

PROF.  HIKITA


	294

space and into Penny's hands!

INT.  DOWNSTAIRS OFFICE - NIGHT	295

Penny stepping down off the chair and onto the desk top, her back still 
to the wounded John O'Connor as she quickly stuffs the OVERTHRUSTER 
into her purse...an action unseen by the ghastly, bleeding thug who...

	296



INT.  CRAWL SPACE - NIGHT	297

Buckaroo advancing toward the professor...

PROF. HIKITA'S VOICE


The arachtoid John Bigboot whirling, firing a STINGER that whizzes 
past Buckaroo's head, missing by inches...as Buckaroo FIRES 
twice...John Bigboot screaming...kicking at a small fresh air vent, 
somehow squeezing his huge body out the tiny opening like a rat.

INT.  DRAFTING ROOM - NIGHT	298

Buckaroo helping Professor Hikita up out of the floor...Rawhide lying 
very still now, surrounded by Reno, Perfect Tommy and New Jersey...

...one look between New Jersey and Buckaroo sufficient to tell us that 
Rawhide hasn't got a chance...Buckaroo kneeling beside his old pal, 
Rawhide forcing a smile...

RAWHIDE


BUCKAROO BANZAI


New Jersey extracting a strange MANY-PRONGED STINGER from Rawhide's 
back.  Buckaroo looking at it...Rawhide maintaining a sense of humor...

RAWHIDE


BUCKAROO BANZAI


RAWHIDE


Across the room, Pinky Carruthers comes in with Casper and Scooter 
Lindley, and that black man from Planet 10, John Parker...

PINKY CARRUTHERS


Pinky's words catching in his throat as he sees Rawhide's condition.

	299

there...

	300


BUCKAROO BANZAI


John Parker holding the stinger in his palm...

JOHN PARKER


...as it suddenly comes alive!  He drops it to the floor, stomps it to 
death...

PERFECT TOMMY


RAWHIDE

We gotta stop 'em, Buckaroo.

Buckaroo turning from the BLACK ARACHTOID to his dying buddy...

BUCKAROO BANZAI


RAWHIDE


BUT RAWHIDE CLOSING HIS EYES FOR THE FINAL TIME, as Buckaroo feels for 
a pulse...the look in the great man's eyes saying it all...sadness 
mixed with anger...

BUCKAROO BANZAI


...THE SOUND OF A HELICOPTER STARTING UP...

CASPER LINDLEY


The Cavaliers racing for the window...

RENO


BUCKAROO BANZAI


PROF. HIKITA


JOHN PARKER


BUCKAROO BANZAI

(calmer)
We'll get it back.

Buckaroo shoving Perfect Tommy aside, at the window himself now.

	301


INT.  WALTER REED ARMY HOSPITAL - NIGHT	302

CLOSE ON the familiar face of the Secretary of Defense seen from an 
unusual angle...PULLING BACK TO REVEAL PRESIDENT WIDMARK lying on his 
belly, surrounded by the electronics of his temporary set of 
government, staring down at a special mirror that reflects his 
Secretary of Defense, the Secretary pressing a point further an 
igniting a Camel with a lighter from the President's nightstand.

SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

then foreigners...Asiatics, their names changed, their true backgrounds 
shrouded in secrecy! I mean, when you come right up against it, what do 
we really know about any of 'em?

A NURSE appears with two little pills...

NURSE


PRESIDENT WIDMARK


SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

We've never had a weapon like the Jet Car in the past, Mr. President.  
Light-weight, highly mobile, stick on some anti-tank missiles, a couple 
grenade launchers, hell, we could buy ourselves two hundred Jet Cars 
for the price of ten tanks, send 'em swarming all over Ivan like bumble 
bees, sir, right clear through their precious little Iron Curtain like 
it was Swiss cheese!  They gotta be just scared shitless!

PRESIDENT WIDMARK


SECREATRY OF DEFENSE

submit his boys to at least a routine government security check, that 
Jet Car should be in the hands of Defense, and if they won't sell us 
the technology, then Mr. President, by God, sir, we have got to take 
it!  In the national interest.

The lighter in the Secretary's hand suddenly BEEPING, startling him and 
prompting the President to claim the gizmo and point it at...

	303

APPEARS...

PRESIDENT WIDMARK


BUCKAROO BANZAI ON TV


PRESIDENT WIDMARK

like out there in the real world?

Secretary of Defense McKinley stepping around behind the bed, coming 
into Buckaroo's field of vision...

BUCKAROO BANZAI ON TV

very unusual has reared its ugly head in outer space, and it looks like 
the Earth's caught in a crossfire.

PRESIDENT WIDMARK


EXT.  BUCKAROO'S BUS - NIGHT	304

On a highway somewhere near the Eastern seaboard, Buckaroo's bus speeds 
toward Yoyodyne...

INT.  WORLD WATCH ONE/BUS - NIGHT	305

Buckaroo standing at a TV-telephone in his MOBILE ELECTRONIC NERVE 
CENTER, the arachtoidal John Parker right at his side amid a flurry of 
activity... technicians accumulating INFO on THE ALIEN FATHER SHIP FROM 
PLANET 10...

BUCKAROO BANZAI

that there are moving freely among us, vicious red aliens disguised as 
the owners and operators of Yoyodyne Propulsion Systems.

...Perfect Tommy, Reno, even Casper Lindley, coming in and out of the 
picture, transforming themselves into a crack commando unit donning 
assault/chemical-warfare uniforms...little Scooter Lindley among them, 
too, doing like his dad.

	306


Under control of alien nationals?  Reds?  Commies, you say?

	307

BLACK ARACHTOID SHIP HEADED TOWARD EARTH...

	308


camouflaged as human beings...and what they're really building, forget 
your Truncheon bomber, Mr. Secretary, is this enormous rocketship to 
escape back through the Eighth Dimension and then on to Planet 10.

SECRETARY OF DEFENSE ON TV


BUCKAROO BANZAI

corroborate everything I've said because he's from Planet 10 too.

INT.  WALTER REED ARMY HOSPITAL - NIGHT	309

The President dumbfounded...John Parker on TV appearing as nothing more 
than a wild and wooly Rastafarian...

PRESIDENT WIDMARK


JOHN PARKER ON TV

Time is short, Mr. President. To prevent John Whorfin's escape, my 
comrades are at this moment taking up a geostationary position over New 
Jersey. This situation is explosive!

PRESIDENT WIDMARK

Jersey--?

BUCKAROO BANZAI

President.  He's a black arachtoid.

SECRETARY OF DEFENSE


INT.  WORLD WATCH ONE/BUS - NIGHT	310

New Jersey joins Professor Hikita at a microscope, analyzing a slide 
smeared with that weird alien 'blood'...

PRESIDENT WIDMARK ON TV

would've heard from my SAC radar by now if...

INT.  WALTER REED ARMY HOSPITAL - NIGHT	311

BUCKAROO BANZAI ON TV

arachtoids are cleverly hidden inside a huge thundercloud.

The Secretary of Defense takes action, picks up a phone...

SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

(to the President)
...the FBI.  Let's see if this spade's wanted.  What the hell's his 
name again?  Jackson?

JOHN PARKER ON TV

who has made it clear that unless John Whorfin is destroyed at once, 
she intends to fire an atomic beam from your American airspace...

BUCKAROO BANZAI ON TV


PRESIDENT WIDMARK


BUCKAROO BANZAI ON TV

ready to exploit Soviet-American tensions and get us to blow each other 
off the face of the earth, sir, if necessary.

PRESIDENT WIDMARK

other pretty well, I think.

SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

how's everything over there at Yoyodyne?  How's my big bomber coming?  
Nothing out of the, you know, ordinary?  Spiders?  I know you're 
busy...lunch?  Sounds good...when's good for you?  Next Tuesday?  I'm 
writing it down in my book.  See you then...Uncle Sam's treat.

The Secretary writes nothing down, hangs up, looking unsatisfied with 
the conversation just concluded.

INT.  WORLD WATCH ONE/BUS - NIGHT	312

Buckaroo glancing over at Professor Hikita and New Jersey, the latter 
squinting into the microscope...

PRESIDENT WIDMARK ON TV

nuclear extortion, spiders in thunder clouds, a girl named "John"...

NEW JERSEY


PROF. HIKITA


NEW JERSEY

our consciousness.  Diabolical.  We only see what they want us to see.

PROF. HIKITA


John Parker nearby, helping Reno synthesize more of Professor Hikita's 
ARACHTOIDAL ANTIDOTE and pour the liquid into GAS MASK FILTERS...

SECRETARY OF DEFENSE McKINLEY STEPPING CLOSER INTO THE PICTURE...

SECRETARY OF DEFENSE ON TV


BUCKAROO BANZAI

Overthruster is in Penny Priddy's possession and she's been kidnapped 
and taken to Yoyodyne, further exacerbating the situation. We're on our 
way there right now.

INT.  WALTER REED ARMY HOSPITAL - NIGHT	313

PRESIDENT WIDMARK


The Secretary of Defense giving the President a sly 'I told you so' 
look...

INT.  WORLD WATCH ONE/BUS - NIGHT	314

Perfect Tommy coming over, interrupting...

PERFECT TOMMY


INT.  WALTER REED ARMY HOSPITAL - NIGHT	315

BUCKAROO BANZAI ON TV

now.

And his image fades.

PRESIDENT WIDMARK


The President picks up the phone...

SECRETARY OF DEFENSE


PRESIDENT WIDMARK

some hard data on that cloud. We got any killer satellites over Jersey-
-?

INT.  WORLD WATCH ONE/BUS - DAY	316

Everyone studying a much MORE DETAILED COMPUTER ENHANCEMENT of the 
alien cloud...

The Alien John Parker on the phone, whispering...	317

RENO 


BUCKAROO BANZAI

John Parker, tell them we're doing our best.  Stall.

JOHN PARKER

Buckaroo Banzai says patience is a virtue, Wing Commander, sir.

Perfect Tommy interrupting again, holding yet another telephone...

PERFECT TOMMY


BUCKAROO BANZAI


INT.  SPEED OPERATOR'S PULPIT (YOYODYNE) - NIGHT	318

Meanwhile in a grimy narrow control booth high above the factory floor, 
a terrified Penny Priddy sits BOUND and GAGGED, John O'Connor SPREADING 
THE CONTENTS FROM A HONEY-BEAR SQUEEZE BOTTLE over her naked arms while 
long trails of ORDINARY PICNIC ANTS make their way up her legs...John 
Bigboot looking on...

Penny's UNOPENED big clear plastic purse on Doctor Lizardo's desk, the 
OVERTHRUSTER right under his nose and he doesn't even know it as he 
speaks into the phone handed to him by an ASSISTANT.  BEGIN 
INTERCUTTING.

DOCTOR LIZARDO

flattered.  We know the same people.  In fact, one of them is here with 
me now...your associate, Doctor Penny Priddy.

	319



	320


miserable annals of the Earth, you will be duly enshrined! However...
(a pause)
...Miss Priddy claims to be unable to solve my problem. And provide the 
crucial missing circuit for my Overthruster.  Perhaps you can convince 
her to try.

Lizardo holding the phone toward Penny, ripping her gag off...

PENNY PRIDDY


BUCKAROO BANZAI


Doctor Lizardo yanking the phone from Penny, remaining silent for a 
second to torture Buckaroo's soul...

BUCKAROO BANZAI


DOCTOR LIZARDO

place. Yoyodyne, Dr. Banzai. Come alone, with your Overthruster!
(hanging up)
He'll bring it.  I know his type.

Penny glancing surreptitiously at her large transparent purse, THE 
OVERTHRUSTER IN A JUMBLE OF COSMETICS!

DOCTOR LIZARDO


Smiling smugly, Lizardo heads for the door, Penny squirming in her seat 
as the TINY ANTS dig in...

PENNY PRIDDY

Well, you're not destroying me like you did my sister!

Lizardo simply sneering at her as he goes out the door...

INT.  PASSENGER SECTION/BUS - NIGHT	321

A flurry of well-ordered activity taking place...Hong Kong Cavaliers 
and Blue Shield Irregulars along with Pinky Carruthers.  Casper and 
Scooter...sitting up front like paratroopers, cleaning their back-pack 
FLAMETHROWERS...SAWED-OFF SHOTGUNS...Buckaroo giving them a chalk talk, 
an aerial photograph of Yoyodyne on the clear plexiglas 'blackboard'...

BUCKAROO BANZAI

them like I have since yesterday, as arachtoidal creatures. They won't 
be pretty, nothing personal, John Parker.  But just remember...if we 
fail tonight, there's no tomorrow.

JOHN PARKER


Buckaroo nodding...THE CAVALIERS BREATING THEIR ANTIDOTE FILTERS, 
SEEING NOW "THE ALIEN" JOHN PARKER WITH A MIXTURE OF DISBELIEF AND 


BUCKAROO BANZAI

That'll be my job: get it back in one piece.  Here's the main gate.  
I'll pass through first, alone.  The rest of you divide into two strike 
groups-Apache Team...that's you, Reno...and Chaparral Team, Perfect 
Tommy.  John Parker'll ride with Chaparral.

Perfect Tommy not too thrilled about that.

BUCKAROO BANZAI

built-in tracking device should make it relatively simple to 
locate...maybe hard to get.

INT.  BOWELS OF YOYODYNE - NIGHT	322

Penny being dragged by John O'Connor through a slimy underground 
corridor, past a strange piece of machinery.

INT.  WALTER REED HOSPITAL - NIGHT	323

The President of the United States talks into a cigarette lighter and 
peeks up a nurse's skirt by means of his floor mirror...

	324

SECURITY ADVISOR...

	325


figure this lighter out?

NATIONAL SECURITY MAN


PRESIDENT WIDMARK


NATIONAL SECURITY MAN

report all surveillance satellite communication jammed.

PRESIDENT WIDMARK


NATIONAL SECURITY MAN

cause for alarm.  Intelligence reports the Soviets are having the same 
problem.

PRESIDENT WIDMARK


GENERAL CATBURD

half-cocked, Mr. President.

The President twisting around to glower at Catburd eating an orange, 
sitting near a table of flowers and fruit baskets.

SENATOR CUNNINGHAM


Senator Cunningham pacing nervously...

GENERAL CATBURD

it did to his brain...maybe scrambled his molecules. All I'm saying is, 
let's not panic here!  I'm sure there's a rational explanation...

NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISOR

Russian radar is down, sir.  They've just gone to Code Red.

Silence.  And then calmly and quietly:

PRESIDENT WIDMARK


The National Security Advisor turning back to his telephone:

NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISOR


GENERAL CATBURD

(looking at Cunningham)
...or persons.  I'm a soldier and I'm a damn good one, enough 
decorations to snap a Christmas tree, but I don't mind telling you, I'm 
sure I speak for everyone in this room when I say I am scared. I'm 
barely holding my fudge right now.

SENATOR CUNNINGHAM

together.

PRESIDENT WIDMARK

(pause)
Forget we're the good guys and we'd never attack first.  They think 
we're godless monsters just like them.  Put yourself in their 
samovars...sitting in the dark without radar, bells ringing all over 
the damn Kremlin, little men in fedora hats getting out of Zils, coming 
into the Great Hall of the People.  Now, do you think they're gonna 
listen to reason?  I'll give Buckaroo his Planet 10 space cloud, but do 
you think they will?

NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISOR

Soviet radar is down, sir, and so is ours.  We're both totally 
defenseless.  More or less.

GENERAL CATBURD


PRESIDENT WIDMARK


GENERAL CATBURD

primero...blast 'em off the face of the Earth before they lose their 
heads and do it to us first.

PRESIDENT WIDMARK


NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISOR


INT.  WALTER REED HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - NIGHT	326

An apple-cheeked Marine Lieutenant sits watching a television soap 
opera, only the sinister BLACK BRIEFCASE chained to his wrist setting 
him apart from missions of other viewers...General Catburd sticking his 
head out of the President's room...

GENERAL CATBURD


...as an out-of-breath Mrs. Johnson rounds the corner on rollerskates, 
out-foxing SECRET SERVICE AGENTS and the rest of the President's 
entourage, cutting through, clutching the YELLOW RECORD...

MRS. JOHNSON


EXT.  RENDEZVOUS POINT - NIGHT	327

A dimly lighted parking lot not far from Yoyodyne.  A KOLODNY BROS. 
PLUMBING VAN arrives, disgorging several tough BLUE SHIELDS as Buckaroo 
and Professor Hikita confer...the alien John Parker doing some highly 
unusual warm-up exercises on the tarmac...Reno telling the arriving 
Blue Shields:

RENO


PERFECT TOMMY


NEW JERSEY


BUCKAROO BANZAI

not much for speeches, but things could get rough out there tonight.  
It's a fight we didn't ask for, but it's a fight we're stuck with and 
we all saw what happened to Rawhide.  So if for any reason this is 
good-bye, I want you all to know that...well...that...you crazy lugs...

Buckaroo finding it difficult to put into words what they all mean to 
him, the Cavaliers smiling, needling him...

RENO


The JET CAR racing up, skidding to a stop, Billy jumping out, the big 
engine still running.

BUCKAROO BANZAI


Buckaroo embracing Professor Hikita, turning back to his men, pulling 
on his helmet:

BUCKAROO BANZAI


Buckaroo tossing a quick Blue Shield salute, shutting himself into his 
speed machine.

	328

smoke as he rockets up the highway!

INT.  YOYODYNE - NIGHT	329

Penny Priddy, more bedraggled and filthy than ever, being dragged by 
John O'Connor deeper into the bowels of Yoyodyne, down a flooded 
subterranean corridor...

INT.  WALTER REED ARMY HOSPITAL - NIGHT	330

CLOSE ON THE PRESIDENT'S FACE...JOHN EMDALL'S VOICE OVER...talking 
thermonuclear war...wrapping her speech up...WHOOSH!

PRESIDENT WIDMARK


	331

President's National Security Advisor places a call on that ominous 
STRANGE PHONE, a palpable tension rising, urgency bordering on panic...

...General Catburd and the young Marine lieutenant rummaging through a 
confusion of envelops in the BLACK BRIEFCASE.

NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISOR


GENERAL CATBURD

Documents for your eyes only...John-Hancock these, and we got ourselves 
a knockout little force posture...

SENATOR CUNNINGHAM

more so that future generations of...

THE LIGHTS IN THE ROOM START TO BLINK ON AND OFF...silencing the 
Senator...Catburd handing the President a writing implement...pulling 
out a special writing tray from the bed...

PRESIDENT WIDMARK

earth can I even...have to stay awake, alert...that's my job.  That's 
what the people put me here for.

INT.  FATHER SHIP - NIGHT	332

Meanwhile inside the strange vaporous entity...BLACK CREATURES scuttle 
about their jobs in semi-darkness, monitoring the Earth below...

BLACK ARACHTOID COMMANDER


BLACK ARACHTOID AT SCOPE


BLACK ARACHTOID COMMANDER


EXT.  MAIN GATE/YOYODYNE - NIGHT	333

...as Buckaroo arrives in his JET CAR...RED ARACHTOID GUARDS unlocking 
the chain link barrier, swinging it open...

INT.  SPEED OPERATOR'S PULPIT (YOYODYNE) - NIGHT	334

In the nerve center of Yoyodyne, a nervous John Bigboot watches Dr. 
Lizardo addressing his ragtag followers on the floor below...Bigboot 
with his hands on Lizardo's mike cord, trying to get up enough nerve to 
pull the plug on his boss...

DOCTOR LIZARDO

must move! Escape or die! 

	335

huge aircraft factory that houses a GIANT SPOACESHIP OF BIZARRE DESIGN, 
a customized 747, wingless, jagged, the entire vehicle suspended twenty 
feet off the floor on movable cranes, work ladders stretching up to its 
several doors...

DOCTOR LIZARDO

the Eighth Dimension and free our trapped comrades! So we can return to 
our homeland and seize power once again! 

...Lizardo's followers extending their three-fingered hands in fascist 
salutes as he whips them into a feverish state:

BACK TO:	336

DR. LIZARDO


RED ARACHTOIDS


DR. LIZARDO


RED ARACHTOIDS


Dr. Lizardo peers down at the hangar floor.

	337

MACHINE...

INT.  JET CAR/LAUNCH HANGAR - NIGHT	338

The Jet Car's engine shut down, Buckaroo CHECKING HIS OVERTHRUSTER 
HOMING DEVICE as he's trundled toward John Gomez, in a graveyard of 
HUGE YELLOW SPIKES, his eyes taking in everything, from the last-minute 
preparation of the GIANT SPACECRAFT to:

	339

standing high in the speed operator's pulpit...

	340

dashboard, ripping out its cassette deck, finding the crucial 
Overthruster missing and shaking his head in Lizardo's direction.

JOHN GOMEZ


THEIR POV	341

An angry John Bigboot racing down the stairs toward the Jet Car...as 
over the PUBLIC ADDRESS BOOMS:

DOCTOR LIZARDO


BACK TO:	342

BUCKAROO BANZAI


For that seemingly flippant but honest answer, Buckaroo gets punched by 
John Bigboot...doubling him over...

DR. LIZARDO'S VOICE


INT.  YOYODYNE SHOCK TOWER - NIGHT	343

Murky, dank, an insect paradise...Buckaroo standing trapped inside an 
ELECTROMAGNETIC FIELD...John Bigboot looking on...

...Dr. Lizardo flashing two separate, incredibly complex ELECTRICAL 
DIAGRAMS on A MONITOR SCREEN in rapid-fire order.

DOCTOR LIZARDO

brutal charge to your auditory meatus...

BUCKAROO BANZAI


DR. LIZARDO

about to be destroyed, and you're wasting time like this...

BUCKAROO BANZAI


CLOSE ON THE POLYGRAPH NEEDLE SUDDENLY JUMPING!	344

	345



DOCTOR LIZARDO

damned is your life!

Lizardo pressing a button, administering a second SHOCK to Buckaroo, 
while an aide turns a dial, INCREASING THE VOLTAGE

DOCTOR LIZARDO


INT/EXT.  PRESIDENT'S HELICOPTER - NIGHT	346

A VIEW OVER THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE'S SHOULDER as the chopper 
descends, lands in a parking lot where Buckaroo's bus sits guarded by 
Cavaliers and Blue Shields...THE CAMERA FOLLOWING the Secretary right 
out into it all...A CARPET CLEANING VAN ARRIVING, THREE MORE TOUGH BLUE 
SHIELD IRREGULARS REPORTING FOR WORK..."THE RUG SUCKERS".

SECRETARY OF DEFENSE


INT.  YOYODYNE SHOCK TOWER - NIGHT	347

Buckaroo still held in his electric straitjacket...Lizardo nodding to 
the ARACHTOID in charge of a bank of glowing closed circuit TV 
sets...the same picture popping onto every set:  PENNY HANGING IN "THE 
PIT".

BUCKAROO BANZAI


DOCTOR LIZARDO


Lizardo indicates his favorite monitor...the INCOMPLETE OVERTHRUSTER 
equation flashing across its face.

DOCTOR LIZARDO

this equation.  I must have the crucial missing circuit.

CLOSE ON THE MONITOR...a riot of circuits and junctions...	348

BACK TO:	349

BUCKAROO BANZAI


DR. LIZARDO


BUCKAROO BANZAI


Buckaroo smiles at Lizardo's surprise, Lizardo signaling John Bigboot 
who turns on the voltage, ZAPPING Buckaroo!

INT.  BUCKAROO'S BUS (PARKED) - NIGHT	350

The Secretary of Defense pacing the aisle of the bus, looking at his 
watch while the Cavaliers and newly arrived Blue Shields conceal their 
eagerness for battle...checking watches, cleaning weapons.

SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

out?

Perfect Tommy looking back into World Watch One...

PERFECT TOMMY


SECREATARY OF DEFENSE


...Scooter Lindley, wearing a gas mask, approaches the alien John 
Parker with a BLUE SHIELD BALLPOINT PEN and a piece of paper...

SCOOTER LINDLEY


John Parker at first not understanding the nature of the 
request...looking at the ball-point pen, Scooter flipping the point for 
him...

SCOOTER LINDLEY


JOHN PARKER


...the Secretary of Defense, NERVOUSLY CRACKING HIS KNUCKLES...moving 
up the aisle, suddenly screaming:

SCRETARY OF DEFENSE

for?  Christmas?

PROF. HIKITA

Ten minutes more.  Buckaroo's orders.

SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

States of America!  In loco presidentis!  Which means I'm in charge 
here!

PERFECT TOMMY


SECRETARY OF DEFENSE


PERFECT TOMMY


That answer alone enough to drive the Secretary up the wall...

SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

shit.  I could be on Easy Street with a cushy job in the private 
sector.  But instead,  I got me a nine-hundred-million-dollar way-the-
hell-behind-schedule top-secret bomber being built down there by 
Yoyodyne Propulsion Systems and I don't intend to set twiddling thumbs 
in a bus while Buckaroo Banzai goes crashing around my airplane looking 
for his damn girlfriend, driving a car that itself is probably worth 
more to this country than all the tea in China!  I'm talking National 
Security risk and we are going in there like gentlemen and straighten 
this thing out before somebody gets hurt!  You got that?

...the Secretary suddenly grabbing a weapon from a surprised Blue 
Shield and turning it toward the driver...

REVERSE ANGLE...THE SECRETARY CRACKING A SHOT OFF AT THE WINDSHIELD!


	352


order!

With his weapon trained on the driver, who's to stop him?

PERFECT TOMMY


EXT.  HIGHWAY NEAR YOYODYNE - NIGHT	353

The double bus leaping forward, heading down the long approach road to 
Yoyodyne...past a BILLBOARD touting the aerospace achievements 
of...YOYODYNE-AN EXCITING, GROWING COMPANY...JUST ONE MILE 
AHEAD...PATROLLED BY AIRCRAFT.

INT.  BUCKAROO'S BUS - NIGHT	354

The Cavaliers letting the Secretary of Defense call the shots for the 
moment, talking among themselves, Perfect Tommy squelching any notion 
of knocking off their hysterical hijacker:

PERFECT TOMMY

Hey, so we get into action quicker this way.  We tell Buckaroo our 
watches were fast.

Ordinary citizen John Parker taking a step toward the Secretary, 
offering him a gas mask...the Secretary turning on him...

SECRETARY OF DEFENSE


A mystified John Parker stepping back.

	355

at the chain link gates coming into view...YOYODYNE-AN EQUAL 
OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER.

REVERSE ON	356

SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

(to the driver)
Slow her down.

EXT.  GUARD GATE/YOYODYNE - NIGHT	357

The Secretary getting out, coming around to the REDHEADED YOYODYNE 
GUARDS who try to peer in through the bus' tinted windows...

SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

him...

GUARD


SECRETARY OF DEFENSE


The Secretary pushing the astonished guards aside and picking up the 
telephone, the guards trying to stop him and in the process turning 
their backs on the bus as it SILENTLY CRUISES PAST THE GATE INTO 
YOYODYNE...

EXT.  DESERTED AREAS (YOYODYNE) - NIGHT	358

...the bus coming to a stop in a scrap metal dump inside the big 
compound, Cavaliers and Blue Shields piling out, going with their 
assigned groups...Perfect Tommy's Chaparral Team following John Parker 
toward a normal looking building...

JOHN PARKER


PERFECT TOMMY


But John Parker entering a crawl space beneath the huge 
building...Chaparral Team having no choice, following.

EXT.  YOYODYNE GATE - NIGHT	359

The Secretary of Defense struggling with the guards for possession of 
the phone, drawing his stolen weapon...

SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

I'm here to drain the swamp.  So I'm gonna use this phone...because it 
is all over for you, Baby Blue...
(picking up the phone)
This is the Secretary of Defense at the poorly guarded west gate.  I 
wanna speak to John Bigboot, person to person.  Okay, okay...Bigboot.

EXT.  UNDERGROUND ENTRANCE/YOYODYNE - NIGHT	360

Reno's Apache Team (Casper and Scooter on board), finds yet ANOTHER 
UNDERGROUND ENTRANCE to the main building, slips in...

INT.  UNDERGROUND BUILDING - NIGHT	361

Chaparral Team (the alien, John Parker, Perfect Tommy) in the strange 
labyrinth of dark, low-ceilinged passageways, making their way 
cautiously...

PERFECT TOMMY

starting to whistle...

A FORM suddenly dropping from the ceiling, landing on Perfect Tommy, a 
fierce struggle in the darkness...John Parker to the rescue, garroting 
a RED ARACHTOID, Perfect Tommy helping himself up...

PERFECT TOMMY


JOHN PARKER


PERFECT TOMMY


INT.  BIVOUAC ROOM - NIGHT	362

...John Parker leading the way again, up some unusual stairs...into the 
MAIN BIVOUAC ROOM, RED ARACHTOIDS apparently asleep in bizarre tents, 
others hanging from the ceiling like sloths, A STRANGE HEAVY HUMMING 
NOISE starting to fill the room...

JOHN PARKER


John Parker breaking into a run for the far end of the room, Perfect 
Tommy and the others following, John Parker hitting the door...and AN 
ALARM GOES OFF...Perfect Tommy opening fire at a HUGE GENERATOR...THE 
POWER DROPPING EVERYWHERE!

INT.  YOYODYNE SHOCK TOWER - NIGHT	363

LIGHTS PULSING...ELECTIRICITY FAILING in the murky torture chamber 
giving Buckaroo just the change he needs to break free of the shock 
tower.

DOCTOR LIZARDO


INT.  CORRIDOR - NIGHT	364

Buckaroo ducking into a recessed doorway, taking cover against a wall 
wet with strange algae as various ARACHTOID GUARDS scramble past, ALARM 
BELLS AND SIRENS GROANING...

DOCTOR LIZARDO

Kill the girl! 

...Buckaroo losing sight of the swift arachtoid John Bigboot, 
resorting instead to his ELECTRONIC TRACKING DEVICE while...

INT.  FLOODED CORRIDOR - NIGHT	365

...Reno, New Jersey and Pinky Carruthers bring Apache Team down a 
flooded corridor, meeting some opposition.

INT.  DARK CORRIDOR - NIGHT	366

Buckaroo spotting New Jersey in the confusion, the two of them tracking 
Penny electronically, descending concrete steps, moving down a dark 
corridor that we recognize...

INT.  LAUNCH HANGER - NIGHT	367

The Secretary of Defense meanwhile reaching the big hangar, confused, 
alarmed, chaos everywhere, shouting over the din:

SECRETARY OF DEFENSE


...spotting John Bigboot across the hangar floor, going after him, 
staring bug-eyed at the MONSTROUS-LOOKING SPACECRAFT suspended above 
the hangar floor...

SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

approved that!

INT.  CORRIDOR - NIGHT	368

The Secretary following the speedy John Bigboot around a bend, unable 
to keep up...

SECRETARY OF DEFENSE


Bigboot giving no indication of seeing him, rounding a corner ducking 
into his office...

...the Secretary rounding the corner too but seeing no sign of 
Bigboot...instead just an office door, a nameplate reading JOHN 
BIGBOOT, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT...the Secretary of Defense opening 
the door...

INT.  BIGBOOT'S OFFICE - NIGHT	369

...moving past a vacant receptionist's desk to John Bigboot's 
cavernous, strangely furnished chamber...EMPTY.

SECRETARY OF DEFENSE


...but no sign of John Bigboot.

INT.  CORRIDOR - NIGHT	370

Buckaroo and New Jersey still tracking Penny, moving through another 
flooded, slimy corridor we remember...

INT.  BIGBOOT'S OFFICE - NIGHT	371

...the Secretary spying a phone on the receptionist's desk amid 
scattered Oreo cookies, picking the phone up, clicking it a couple of 
times to get a dial tone...totally ignoring AN AMAZING FRAMED PICTURE 
OF A RED ARACHTOID MOTHER AND CHILD ON THE DESK RIGHT IN FRONT OF 


SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

around here?

...his gaze now focusing squarely on that cheap framed photograph of 
the RED ARACHTOIDS...Secretary McKinley losing his bearings...

SECRETARY OF DEFENSE


...his mind reeling, refusing to accept the obvious, the oddly designed 
furniture and chairs in the room, somehow insect-like...a sudden 
sound...a WOMAN'S SCREAM that seems to come from...underneath the 
floor?

...the Secretary cocking his weapon and stepping around the desk as an 
amazing thing occurs...A TRAPDOOR IN THE OFFICE FLOOR opening, the 
Secretary going to investigate, able to observe...

	372

barely conscious Penny still in her private hell, trussed and taped, 
ANTS CRAWLING ON HER ARMS...the lurid specter of John Bigboot staring 
at her...

INT.  THE PIT - NIGHT	373

PENNY'S CLEAR PLASTIC PURSE UNOPENED ON THE DESK BESIDE HER, as the 
Secretary of Defense suddenly knocks John O'Connor down the ladder and 
jumps into the room, injuring his ankle...

SECRETARY OF DEFENSE


JOHN BIGBOOT


SECRETARY OF DEFENSE


JOHN BIGBOOT 

reasonable... 

SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

bomber?  Look at this place...where's your pride?  It's like a pigsty 
down here!

	374

the Secretary off the floor, banging him into the wall...

JOHN BIGBOOT


...BIZARRE LAMPS SWAYING as GUNFIRE upstairs prompts Bigboot to 
release the Secretary, to urge O'Connor to head for a door off the 
hallway...

JOHN O'CONNOR


JOHN BIGBOOT


INT.  CORRIDOR - NIGHT	375

Bigboot and O'Connor emerging in the hallway...seen by Buckaroo Banzai 
and New Jersey as RED ARACHTOIDS...

JOHN PARKER


Buckaroo turning and just in time, the alien JOHN GOMEZ right behind 
him...and behind Gomez, John Parker and Perfect Tommy with flame 
throwers...

...Buckaroo and New Jersey hitting the deck as the RED ARACHTOID gets 
smoked, the aliens John Bigboot and John O'Connor escaping in the 
confusion...

INT.  THE PIT - NIGHT	376

The Secretary of Defense still on the floor, spotting the OVERTHRUSTER 
in Penny's purse, taking it just as Buckaroo and New Jersey rush into 
the room...lights swaying...shadows dancing...

...the Secretary struggling to his feet as Buckaroo cuts Penny 
down...spraying her with a white insecticide, New Jersey checking her 
vital signs, Buckaroo shocking New Jersey accidentally with a jolt of 
STATIC ELECTRICITY, as the Secretary slips the OVERTHRUSTER under his 
coat...

SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

It's not over yet...I'll bounce back...always have.  I'll come through 
this thing smelling like a goddamn rose-just watch me.

The Secretary limping out of the room...New Jersey trying to get 
penny's pulse while Buckaroo peels back her eyelids...

NEW JERSEY


BUCKAROO BANZAI


Buckaroo looking at New Jersey, knowing he can trust him, rummaging 
through Penny's purse...no Overthruster...

INT.  YOYODYNE SHOCK TOWER - NIGHT	377

Dr. Lizardo and the alien John O'Connor and the alien John Bigboot 
seeing their deteriorating position OVER A CLOSED-CIRCUIT TV...VIDEO 
IMAGES OF THE INVADING FORCES...

DOCTOR LIZARDO


JOHN BIGBOOT


JOHN O'CONNOR


Lizardo picking up a primitive INCOMPLETE OVERTHRUSTER THE SIZE OF AN 
APPLE CRATE...

DOCTOR LIZARDO


INT.  FLOODED CORRIDOR - NIGHT	378

Buckaroo joining the alien John Parker, the two of them tearing down 
one of the flooded passages...suddenly covering their ears from those 
PAINFUL, EAR-SPLITTING HORNS!

INT.  ANOTHER CORRIDOR - NIGHT	379

Secretary of Defense McKinley makes his way through several RED 
ARACHTOIDS running in blind panic...SIRENS WAILING...

SECRETARY OF DEFENSE


INT.  LAUNCH HANGAR - DAWN	380

...the light of a new day starting to glow through grimy windows...as 
down on the floor, Dr. Lizardo is about to scale a spindly ladder into 
his BIG SUSPENDED SPACESHIP...Lizardo spotting Buckaroo, John Parker 
and Hong Kong Cavaliers entering this sacred space...

DOCTOR LIZARDO


Dr. Lizardo pushing his own soldiers aside, scurrying into his 
SPACESHIP with John Bigboot and John O'CONNOR.

INT.  LIZARDO'S BIG SPACESHIP - DAWN	381

no sooner inside than a cowardly order is issued to John O'Connor:

DOCTOR LIZARDO


INT.  LAUNCH HANGAR - DAWN	382

Meanwhile, the floor of the hangar...the alien John Parker using 
strange judo, the amazing Blue Shields fighting like Samurai, ducking 
STINGERS, FIREING into the enemy at point blank range...

	383

pouring from the exhaust pipes...

	384


	385

amid that field of weird yellow totems...

ANOTHER ANGLE	386

John Parker reaching the BIG SPACESHIP to find Buckaroo already there, 
Buckaroo taking the lead up a tall ladder that seems to reach to a REAR 
ENTRANCE.

INT.  THERMOPOD - DAWN	387

Buckaroo settling into a weird little chair, John Parker at his side, 
facing the opposite direction in a love-seat arrangement...at a wall 
cluttered with confusing instruments and a framed photo of LIZARDO...NO 
WAY INTO THE BIG SHIP FROM HERE...

BUCKAROO BANZAI


JOHN PARKER


INT.  LIZARDO'S BIG SPACESHIP - DAWN	388

John Bigboot in the co-pilot's seat, as Doctor Lizardo attempts to 
connect his clumsy overthruster.

DOCTOR LIZARDO


JOHN BIGBOOT


DOCTOR LIZARDO


John O'Connor pushing John Bigboot aside as Lizardo hits another 
switch and for a fraction of a second ALL HELL BREAKS LOOSE, A BLINDING 
GREEN LIGHT!

INT.  LAUNCH HANGAR - DAWN	389

The spacecraft lurches forward twelve feet!  Stops.

INT.  LIZARDO'S BIG SPACESHIP - DAWN	390

DOCTOR LIZARDO


INT.  LAUNCH HANGAR - DAWN	391

...AS WITHOUT WARNING LIZARDO'S BIG SHIP LURCHES AGAIN LIKE A TETHERED 


ANGLE ON THE WALL PULSING!	392

INT.  THERMOPOD - DAWN	393

BUCKAROO BANZAI


INT.  LIZARDO'S BIG SPACESHIP - DAWN	394

Dr. Lizardo, a raging madman in the cockpit, using a RADIO MIKE:

DOCTOR LIZARDO


JOHN BIGBOOT


INT.  THERMOPOD - DAWN	395

THE DOOR SLAMMING SHUT, TRAPPING THEM...

JOHN PARKER


BUCKAROO BANZAI


INT.  JET CAR/LAUNCH HANGAR - DAWN	396

Meanwhile, unnoticed, Secretary of Defense John McKinley reaches the 
JET CAR, starts to climb in...

SMALL VOICE


The Secretary turning, not seeing anyone at first...then little Scooter 
Lindley with an M-14 trained on him...

SCOOTER LINDLEY


Scooter means business...as he suddenly demonstrates, blowing away an 
oncoming ARACHTOID before turning the gun back on the Secretary, who 
raises his hands...

SCOOTER LINDLEY


SECRETARY OF DEFENSE


Scooter taking the CURIOUS OBJECT from his prisoner, not fooled for a 
second.

INT.  LIZARDO'S BIG SPACESHIP - DAWN	397

AWFUL THUMPING VIBRARIONS as John O'Connor hits the Overthruster switch 
again!

INT.  LAUNCH HANGER - DAWN	398

THE HANGER WALL BEGINNING TO OOZE...GLOWING.

INT.  LIZARDO'S BIG SPACESHIP - DAWN	399

Dr. Lizardo and John O'Connor ecstatic...John Bigboot terrified...

INT.  THEMOPOD - DAWN	400

Buckaroo and John Parker rattling in their seats!  No escape...

INT.  HANGER WALL - DAWN	401

The sudden "expulsion" by the wall of a TWEEDY, FLESHY OBJECT 
RESEMBLING A LUMP OF CLAY which rapidly begins to define itself as the 
real, 1938-MODEL BLACK-HAIRED DOCTOR LIZARDO, standing in total 
bewilderment, SEVERAL 15th CENTURY BUCCANEERS spit out next, equally 
disoriented...

INT.  LIZARDO'S BIG SPACESHIP - DAWN	402

The "other Lizardo" (Whorfin) meanwhile undergoing a painful reverse 
transformation: FROM OLD MAN BACK TO RED ARACHTOID!  HIS EYES 
GLOWING...LIGHT ENERGY GLOWING INSIDE HIS MOUTH!

JOHN WHORFIN (LIZARDO)


JOHN BIGTOOTE


JOHN WHORFIN


JOHN BIGTOOTE


WHORFIN'S ARM ELONGATING, FLASHING OUT, breaking John Bigboot's neck!  
John O'Connor moving up a notch at Yoyodyne.

INT.  THERMOPOD - DAWN	403

Buckaroo and John Parker picking up all of Whorfin's intraship 
communications...

WHORFIN'S VOICE


	404

floor rushing up as...

INT.  LAUNCH HANGAR - DAWN	405

The BIG SPACESHIP makes violent contact with its runway, rocketing 
ahead!

	406

Emillio Lizardo barely ducking out of the way!  Buccaneers scattering!

EXT.  HANGAR WALL/YOYODYNE - DAWN	407

THE BIG SPACESHIP CRASHING THROUGH THE HANGAR WALL, clumsy, heavy...

	408

morning sky, taking Buckaroo and John Parker with it on its WOBBLY, 
UNCERTAIN FLIGHT...BANKING VIOLENTLY...

INT.  FATHER SHIP - DAWN	409

The crew of BLACK ARACHTOIDS aboard the ethereal father ship also at 
their battle stations...

BLACK ARACHTOID COMMANDER


BLACK ARACHTOID OFFICER

Parker-

BLACK ARACHTOID COMMANDER

particle beam.  Lock on Smolensk.

INT.  THERMOPOD - DAWN	410

John Parker fiddling with a RADIO, homing in on the black ship's 
frequency, overhearing:

BLACK ARACHTOID CHATTER

rupture...

BUCKAROO BANZAI


JOHN PARKER


BUCKAROO BANZAI


John Parker talking to the father ship as Buckaroo struggles to unlock 
the strange little saucer from Whorfin's big vehicle.

	411



	412

switch!

EXT.  WHORFIN'S BIG SPACESHIP - DAWN	413

CLOSE ON the SUCTION BOLTS disengaging!  Freeing the small craft!

EXT.  THERMOPOD - DAWN	414

His vehicle falling sideways, John Parker trying to ignite its ENGINES!

INT.  THERMOPOD - DAWN	415

In a free fall, the engines finally igniting and the thermopod 
rocketing upward!

INT.  FATHER SHIP - DAWN	416

BLACK ARACHTOID OFFICER


BLACK ARACHTOID COMMANDER


INT. THERMOPOD - DAWN	417

Buckaroo struggling to master the strange craft...

BUCKAROO BANZAI


JOHN PARKER


John Parker trying a likely button.

	418



EXT.  SUBURBAN SKIES - DAWN	419

SPACESHIPS THUNDER over the lights of the awakening city below...

INT.  THEMOPOD - DAWN	420

BLACK ARACHTOID CHATTER

Twenty seconds to rapid rupture.  Two zero.  Prepare the heat shields!

Time running out...Buckaroo receiving fire from Whorfin's big 
spaceship, THE SMALL VEHICLE LURCHING...THE TWO VEHICLES ON A COLLISION 
COURSE!

EXT.  THERMOPOD - DAWN	421

The little ship dropping like a stone, barely avoiding a head-on with 
Whorfin and company!

INT.  THERMOPOD - DAWN	422

Buckaroo unhappy with John Parker's marksmanship...their "love seat" 
rotating, reversing their functions...

BUCKAROO BANZAI


INT.  WHORFIN'S BIG SPACESHIP - DAWN	423

John Whorfin and John O'Connor scrambling into evasive action, but it's 
too late.

INT.  THERMOPOD - DAWN	424

Buckaroo Banzai and John Parker diving toward them, their OVERTHRUSTER 
FIRING!  FIRING!

INT.  WHORFIN'S BIG SPACESHIP - DAWN	425

Whorfin shaking his RED FIST in defiance...

JOHN WHORFIN


INT.  THERMOPOD - DAWN	426

FLYING ON A COLLISION COURSE once again, THE OVERTHRUSTER BEAM FINALLY 
HITTING HOME AND THE BIG SPACESHIP DISINTEGRATING, VAPORIZING...John 
Whorfin and his ilk history...

	427

GIANT BALL OF HOT VAPOR THAT WAS LORD WHORFIN...

BUCKAROO BANZAI


JOHN PARKER


BUCKAROO BANZAI


EXT.  YOYODYNE - DAWN	428

As the Cavaliers and Blue Shields anxiously watch, THE SKY CRACKLES AND 
THE CLOUDS GLOW!

INT.  FATHER SHIP - DAWN	429

BLACK ARACHTOID RADAR


BLACK ARACHTOID COMMANDER


EXT.  SKY - DAWN	430

The sun coming up...and as we wonder what terrible fate has befallen 
Buckaroo Banzai and John Parker...A TINY FIGURE APPEARS high in the 
clouds!  A BIZARRE PARACHUTE catching the wind, floating lazily to 
earth.

	431

Parker as the little THERMOPOD flip-flops, tumbles heavenward AT AN 
INCREDIBLE RATE OF SPEED...heading home.

EXT.  YOYODYNE - DAWN	432

Buckaroo touching down...Professor Hikita among the victorious Blue 
Shields scarcely able to believe his eyes as he spots...no, it can't 
be...rising from the debris...

PROF. HIKITA


Now it's the young Doctor Lizardo's turn to stare incredulously...

DOCTOR LIZARDO


The two scientists approaching one another...afraid to touch as if the 
other might prove a mirage...

	433

soot, his clothing torn, hurries toward several Blue Shields (gas masks 
off) herding a half-dozen "HUMAN" PRISONERS while other Shields and 
Cavaliers share congratulatory handshakes...RED STINGERS still stuck in 
their bullet-proof vests...

BUCKAROO BANZAI


PERFECT TOMMY

if you want my opinion.

Perfect Tommy and Reno pacing Buckaroo...

BUCKAROO BANZAI


RENO

illegal aliens, the way I figure, been here forty years, you could 
throw the book at 'em...

BUCKAROO BANZAI

to the Eighth Dimension as soon as we find the Overthruster.  It wasn't 
in Penny's purse...so if we have to run this joint upside down and 
inside out...

Perfect Tommy whistling...

PERFECT TOMMY


Scooter's eyes lighting up as he runs over...

SCOOTER LINDLEY


The Oscillation Overthruster, safe and sound.  Buckaroo amazed, 
receiving the precious object, giving Scooter a Blue Shield 
salute...the Secretary of Defense watching jealously from a short 
distance, his clothing disheveled...

BUCKAROO BANZAI


SCOOTER LINDLEY

(suddenly crestfallen)
I'll have to ask my dad.

BUCKAROO BANZAI


Scooter running off.

	434

Buckaroo's smile immediately vanishing...

NEW JERSEY


Buckaroo racing past new Jersey and into the bus...

INT.  PASSENGER SECTION/BUT - DAWN	435

Buckaroo hurrying through the front section.

INT.  WORLD WATCH ONE/BUS - DAWN	436

Buckaroo hurrying through the COMMUNICATIONS NERVE CENTER...

RADAR SHIELD ONE

mean the baseball team?

No response.

RADAR SHIELD TWO

with the alien space cloud and Planet Ten...or should he just go ahead 
and destroy Russia...? 

BUCKAROO BANZAI


Buckaroo going into his PRIVATE REAR SECTION of the bus...

RADAR SHIELD TWO


INT. BEDROOM/BUS - DAWN	437

Buckaroo reaching his private quarters, finding Penny on his cot, a 
sheet pulled over her face...ethereal morning light caressing her still 
body...

...Buckaroo distraught, pulling the sheet back to reveal Penny in final 
repose, speckled with dead ants, honey and powdery white insecticide... 
Buckaroo leaning toward her in wordless anguish.

	438

FROM THE TIP OF BUCKAROO'S NOSE TO THE TIP OF PENNY'S!

	439

hands...SPARKS...

BUCKAROO BANZAI


...shaking her, exhorting her...

BUCKAROO BANZAI


...but nothing, no more signs of life...

	440

lips...the kiss of the century, A POWERFUL ELECTRIC JOLT!

	441

before her.

PENNY PRIDDY


	442

CRACKLING GOOD as the tiny bedroom heats up and we do the decent 
thing...IRIS OUT...as CREDITS ROLL and the FANTASTIC VOICE OF Dr. 
Buckaroo Banzai serenades us home...

...the Hong Kong Cavaliers harmonizing like honey, the world once again 
a safe, snug harbor.

THE END

Buckaroo Banzai	Shooting Script - 3rd Draft	Page 98
Across The Eighth Dimension

